https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/benefits/understanding-your-benefits/roadmaps/removing-a-family-member-from-insurance/

Removing a family member from insurance | UCnet
Skip to content
Employee benefits
Understanding your benefits
Benefits roadmaps
Removing a family member from insurance
What to do when you’re
Removing a family member from insurance
Whenever a family member loses eligibility to participate in UC-sponsored plans, it is your responsibility to disenroll that family member. If you don’t, you are liable for any excess UC costs and plan expenses the ineligible family member incurs.
Family members become ineligible for UC-sponsored benefits through divorce, the end of a domestic partnership, death or when children become too old, generally at age 26. Here’s what you need to do to disenroll a family member.
On this page:
Review the eligibility rules for family members.
Complete the process to disenroll your family member.
Consider continuing benefits through COBRA or other means.
Review the eligibility rules for family members.
Your
spouse or domestic partner
‘s eligibility ends on the last day of the month you finalize the divorce, separation, annulment or termination of the domestic partnership.
If you are required by legal decree to maintain health coverage and/or life insurance for your family member, you must make private arrangements for such coverage. You may not keep your ineligible family member on your UC plans. However, your family member may be able to continue group coverage, at his or her expense, through COBRA (Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985).
Your
child or grandchild
‘s eligibility stops at the end of the month in which he or she reaches age 26 (unless eligible to continue coverage because of disability) or age 18 for legal wards.
Resources
Complete Guide to UC Health and Welfare Benefits
Group Insurance Eligibility Fact Sheet for Retirees
Family Changes Fact Sheet
Complete the process to disenroll your family member.
Employees:
disenroll your family member from benefits through your
online UCPath account
.
Retirees:
complete the UBEN100 enrollment form and submit it to the Retirement Administration Service Center.
Resources
UCPath
Retiree Continuation, Enrollment, or Change – Medical, Dental, &/or Legal Plan (UBEN 100)
Consider continuing benefits through COBRA or other means.
Divorce, legal separation, annulment, termination of domestic partnership and a child’s loss of eligibility are all COBRA qualifying events. In order for these individuals to apply for COBRA Continuation, you or they must submit form
UBEN 109, Notice to UC of a COBRA Qualifying EventPDF
, within 60 days of the date of the qualifying event or the date coverage is lost, whichever is later. The University makes no contribution to this coverage.
You can
read more about COBRA continuation privileges here
.
Your family member may also want to consider enrolling in medical insurance through the health care marketplace. In California, visit the
Covered California website
.
Resources
COBRA
Notice to UC of a COBRA Qualifying Event (UBEN 109)PDF
Covered California
Employee benefits
A new employee
Adding a family member to your insurance
Adopting a child
Applying for disability
Changing jobs within UC
Changing your address
Enrolling in Medicare
Establishing a domestic partnership
Facing a layoff
Getting married
Going on military leave
Having a baby
Laid off temporarily
Leaving UC employment
Lo despiden temporalmente
Preparing for retirement
Removing a family member from insurance
Taking a furlough
Taking a leave of absence
Taking a sabbatical
Taking paid leave
Manage your benefits
UCPath: Benefits and payroll
UCRAYS: UCRP pension benefits
Fidelity NetBenefits: Retirement savings plans
See benefits info for:
Postdoctoral scholars
Residents and fellows
Represented employees
Retirees