https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/benefits/understanding-your-benefits/roadmaps/enrolling-in-medicare/

Enrolling in Medicare | UCnet
Skip to content
Employee benefits
Understanding your benefits
Benefits roadmaps
Enrolling in Medicare
What to do when you’re
Enrolling in Medicare
If you’re like most people, when you turn 65 you will become eligible to enroll in Medicare, the federal program to provide older adults and those with disabilities or permanent kidney failure with secure access to medical care. To make sure you have the right coverage and to avoid Medicare premium penalties, it’s important to understand the rules and enroll properly.
Active UC employees who are covered by medical insurance through their UC employment are typically not required to enroll in Medicare.
If you’re employed by UC and not planning to retire in the next year or so, this roadmap is
probably
not for you. For important considerations for employees and their dependents who turn 65 or otherwise become eligible for Medicare prior to retirement, please see
Understanding Medicare.
Please note:
You may receive offers to enroll in non-UC Medicare plans, even from insurance carriers like Kaiser that work with UC. These offers are for individual Medicare plans, which may not cover all the benefits offered by your UC group plan, so consider carefully before making any plan changes.
You may only be enrolled in one Medicare plan at any one time.
If you have any questions, please contact the
Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC)
.
On this page:
Learn the basics.
Figure out when you need to enroll.
Decide which UC Medicare plan is right for you.
When it’s time, enroll in Medicare.
Assign your Medicare benefits to your UC-sponsored retiree medical plan.
Understand your UC and Medicare premium costs.
Learn the basics.
This roadmap walks you through a few important steps, but there’s a lot more to learn about Medicare. Take a look at the resources below to make sure you understand Medicare’s rules, how Medicare works with your UC retiree health coverage, what costs to expect and what providers you’ll be able to see.
For more personal assistance, the UC Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) offers
weekly office hours and monthly webinars on Medicare to ask questions and get answers.
Resources
Medicare.gov
Medicare Fact Sheet
Understanding Medicare
Frequently asked questions about Medicare
Medicare office hours and webinars
Figure out when you need to enroll.
If you’re eligible for Medicare and you’re retiring soon or retired, enrolling in Medicare is
not optional for most people
.
If you are a prospective or current retiree who is eligible for
premium-free
Part A and you don’t enroll in Part A and B before your 65
th
birthday (or, if later, your retirement date), you could lose your UC-sponsored medical coverage and be charged penalties by UC and lifelong penalties by Medicare.
If you are required to pay a premium for Part A as a retiree, you are not required to enroll in Medicare Parts A and B. However, UC does require that you send in a denial letter from Social Security to keep your current coverage.
Resources
Medicare Fact Sheet
Medicare.gov
Social Security Administration
Decide which UC Medicare plan is right for you.
UC’s Medicare plans may have different benefits, service areas and providers than corresponding non-Medicare plans. To make sure you’re transferred into the right plan for you, it’s important to review your options
during the Open Enrollment before you enroll in Medicare
.
Your
health care facilitator
can be a great resource.
When you become a Medicare-eligible retiree and Medicare has approved your enrollment, you’ll make the switch from your UC non-Medicare medical plan to a UC-sponsored Medicare plan (see step 5 for details about what you need to do):
CORE
and
UC Care
members are transferred into
UC Medicare PPO
.
Kaiser HMO
members are transferred into
Kaiser Senior Advantage
.
UC Blue & Gold HMO
members are transferred into
UC Medicare Choice PPO
.
UC Health Savings Plan
members have 31 days to enroll in a UC Medicare plan of their choice.
If you live outside of California, find out if you are eligible for the
Medicare Coordinator Program
.
Resources
Retiree medical plan costs
Which Medicare Plan Is Right for You?
Medicare Coordinator Program
When it’s time, enroll in Medicare.
For most benefits, you must enroll your new family member within 31 days of the date they join your family or meet all the eligibility requirements. If you don’t enroll your family member during the PIE, you can enroll him or her during Open Enrollment. You may also enroll your family member in your medical plan only at any time with a 90-day waiting period.
If you’re retiring from UC, enrolling in Medicare will be part of the retirement process. You and your Medicare-eligible family members will need to work with your local HR/Benefits Office to complete the
Request for Employment CMS L564 form
and submit it to Social Security to enroll in Medicare Part B prior to your retirement.
If you’re retired, ninety (90) days before you turn 65, the UC Retirement Administration Service Center will send you a Medicare Instruction Letter which will include the steps you’ll need to take to enroll in Medicare, along with the date UC needs you to enroll in Medicare and return the UC forms.
These are important deadlines, with significant costs if you miss them.
If you are a retiree who does not enroll in Part A and B when you reach your 65
th
birthday you could incur
lifelong penalties by Medicare
plus additional penalties from UC. If, after three to four months you still have not enrolled, you could lose your UC-sponsored medical coverage completely. In most cases, this also applies if you don’t coordinate your Part D prescription coverage with your UC retiree medical plan.
It usually takes about three weeks from when you apply before you receive your Medicare card in the mail. If you are running out of time to get your Medicare card before UC’s deadlines, you may be able to download a Benefit Verification Letter from the Social Security website,
My Social Security
, within about three business days of applying. Your Benefit Verification Letter includes the information you need (including your Medicare Health Insurance claim number (HICN) and coverage effective dates) to complete your required paperwork.
To keep your UC-sponsored retiree coverage and avoid any penalties, you’ll need to maintain your Medicare enrollment by paying your Medicare Part B premiums without interruption and on time. Depending on your income you may need to pay an additional premium for Part D as well.
Resources
Medicare Fact Sheet
Medicare.gov
Social Security Administration
Assign your Medicare benefits to your UC-sponsored retiree medical plan.
Whether you’re enrolled in a UC-sponsored retiree medical plan with a Medicare version or partner plan or enrolling in a Medicare plan during a Period of Initial Eligibility (PIE), you’ll need to fill out the appropriate form to assign your Medicare benefits to your Medicare plan. As a retiree this occurs when you turn 65; as a UC employee who is 65 or older, this occurs when you retire.
Non-Medicare Plans
Retiree Medicare Plans
Required Forms
UC Care or CORE
UC Medicare PPO with Prescription Drugs
Navitus (PDP) Enrollment Form for UC Medicare PPO or UC High Option Supplement to Medicare (UBEN 123) PDF
UC Blue & Gold HMO
UC Medicare Choice
Enrollment Form for UC Medicare Choice (UBEN 121) PDF
Kaiser Permanente CA
Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage
Medicare Advantage Enrollment/Election Form for Kaiser (UBEN 127) PDF
UC Health Savings Plan
31-day PIE to enroll in a new plan and assign your Medicare benefits
Retiree Continuation, Enrollment, or Change – Medical, Dental, &/or Legal Plan (UBEN 100) PDF
Remember, if you are enrolled in UC Health Savings Plan, you have a 31-day PIE to enroll in a new plan and complete the required UC form (see above) to assign your Medicare benefits when you turn 65.
In most cases, once you complete the required form and Medicare approves your enrollment, you will transfer to your medical plan’s Medicare plan. There may be differences between your current non-Medicare plan and your new Medicare plan: your doctor, specialists, behavioral health provider, prescription drug formulary and how you pay for these drugs may change.
Resources
Navitus (PDP) Enrollment Form for UC Medicare PPO or UC High Option Supplement to Medicare (UBEN 123)
Enrollment Form for UC Medicare Choice (UBEN 121)
Medicare Advantage Universal Enrollment/Election Form for Kaiser Senior Advantage (UBEN 127)
Understand your UC and Medicare premium costs.
When you’re enrolled in a UC Medicare plan, you’ll be responsible for premiums from UC and from Medicare.
The
retiree medical plan costs on UCnet
apply to retirees eligible for 100 percent of the UC/employer contribution toward the premium for each plan.
If you are subject to graduated eligibility and, therefore, not eligible for the maximum UC/employer contribution, your costs may be higher than those listed.
The
UC Davis Health Care Facilitator page
includes a premium estimator to help you understand what your share of your retiree medical premium might be. Please sign in to your
UCRAYS
account to see your actual costs.
Medicare Part A is usually premium-free, but there is a monthly premium for Part B coverage, paid to the Social Security Administration. This premium is usually deducted from your Social Security benefit, or you are billed quarterly. See the Medicare Fact Sheet and/or the Social Security website for standard rates.
If your income has gone down, you may use form SSA-44 from the Social Security Administration (available at
https://www.ssa.gov/forms/ssa-44.pdf
) to request a reduction in your income-related monthly adjustment amount.
Most of the UC-sponsored medical plans coordinate Medicare Part D (prescription drug) coverage with the plan’s coverage. Most people are not charged a premium for Part D. However, as with Part B, you may pay a Part D premium based on your income. Check with Social Security to see if you are required to pay a Part D premium. These Medicare premiums are in addition to any premium you pay to UC for your UC insurance.
Resources
Medicare Fact Sheet
Social Security Administration
A new employee
Adding a family member to your insurance
Adopting a child
Applying for disability
Changing jobs within UC
Changing your address
Enrolling in Medicare
Establishing a domestic partnership
Facing a layoff
Getting married
Going on military leave
Having a baby
Laid off temporarily
Leaving UC employment
Lo despiden temporalmente
Preparing for retirement
Removing a family member from insurance
Taking a furlough
Taking a leave of absence
Taking a sabbatical
Taking paid leave
Resources
Complete Guide to UC Health and Welfare Benefits (PDF)
Group Insurance Eligibility Fact Sheet for Retirees (PDF)
Retiree Continuation, Enrollment, or Change – Medical, Dental, &/or Legal Plan (UBEN 100) (PDF)