https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/benefits/understanding-your-benefits/roadmaps/establishing-a-domestic-partnership/

Establishing a domestic partnership | UCnet
Skip to content
Employee benefits
Understanding your benefits
Benefits roadmaps
Establishing a domestic partnership
What to do when you’re
Establishing a domestic partnership
The University of California has been a leader in offering benefits to domestic partners. As you settle into your life together, we recommend you update your personal information. You may also want to enroll your partner in your benefits. Here are a few things to consider.
On this page:
Understand UC’s benefits eligibility rules for domestic partners.
Enroll your partner in health and welfare benefits.
Understand the tax implications.
Update your beneficiaries.
Understand UC’s benefits eligibility rules for domestic partners.
Those who are eligible for UC benefits may enroll their domestic partners and their partners’ eligible dependents as long as the relationship meets established criteria.
The previous age 62 requirement for opposite-gender domestic partners no longer applies.
UC has simplified the process for establishing your domestic partner’s eligibility for UCRP benefits.
Domestic partners who are enrolled in medical, dental and/or vision benefits will automatically be designated as survivor for UCRP benefits, subject to additional eligibility requirements.
If you enroll your domestic partner for benefits and successfully complete the family member eligibility verification process, you do not need to submit a Declaration of Domestic Partnership for Purposes of UC Retirement Plan Benefits (UBEN 250).
Please note that enrolling your partner in benefits such as Accidental Death & Dismemberment or Legal Insurance that
do not
require completion of the eligibility verification process will not establish your partner as your survivor for UCRP benefits. See #3 below for other approved methods for establishing your domestic partnership for UCRP benefits.
Resources
Benefits for Domestic Partners PDF
Family Changes Fact Sheet PDF
Enroll your partner in health and welfare benefits.
You have 31 days from the date your partner first meets the eligibility requirements to add your partner to your health coverage or enroll your partner in life insurance. Depending on your circumstances, your partner may meet the eligibility requirements, and the 31-day window for making benefits changes may begin, when (for example):
Your partnership is registered with the State of California or other jurisdiction
You and your partner begin to share a common residence
You and your partner become financially interdependent (e.g., purchase a car or home together)
While no documentation of eligibility is required to enroll and start coverage, you will receive a Family Member Eligibility Verification packet which will require you to provide proof of your partnership in order to continue the coverage. If you do not provide the proof requested, your partner and your partner’s eligible dependents, if applicable, will be disenrolled.
Remember, if your partner also works at UC, you can be covered under your UC benefits or your partner’s, but not both. If you decide to cover both of you under your benefits, be sure your partner disenrolls from his/her benefits.
If you drop your UC medical coverage to go on your partner’s plan and your partner loses his or her job, you can re-enroll in UC coverage within 31 days of losing your partner’s coverage.
If you use UCPath to manage your benefits, you can make this change through your online account. Retirees use the
UBEN100 form PDF
to enroll.
Resources
UCPath
Retiree Continuation, Enrollment, or Change – Medical, Dental, &/or Legal Plan (UBEN 100) PDF
Establish your domestic partnership for UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) survivor and death benefits.
There are several ways to establish your domestic partnership for UCRP (any single method is sufficient):
Registration of your domestic partnership with the State of California;
Registration of your union, other than marriage, in another jurisdiction that is substantially equivalent to a California domestic partnership; or
Sign and file a UC Declaration of Domestic Partnership (
UBEN 250 PDF
) with UC Human Resources Records Management (P.O. Box 24570, Oakland, CA 94623-1570), and provide requested supporting documentation. Please note that both the UCRP member and the domestic partner must sign the UBEN 250 form. If both you and your domestic partner are employees eligible for UCRP, you must each submit separate UBEN 250 forms, signed by both partners.
Enroll your domestic partner in medical, dental and/or vision benefits, and successfully complete the eligibility verification process. (Note that enrolling your partner in benefits that do not require eligibility verification will not establish your partner as your survivor for UCRP benefits.)
If you and your partner are both UC employees
— enrolling your partner as an eligible family member for UC health benefits establishes your partner as your survivor for UCRP benefits, subject to additional eligibility requirements. Your partner must
actively designate you
as their domestic partner by one of the three methods described above.
While establishing your partnership for UCRP benefits can be done at any time, it is very important to know that if you pass away before doing so, your partner cannot be considered for UCRP benefits.
Some UCRP survivor and death benefits, including preretirement survivor benefits and post-retirement survivor benefits, require an established domestic partnership of at least one year. However, there is no one-year partnership requirement for benefits paid to your domestic partner if you die while eligible to retire, as long as the partnership has been established through one of the above methods.
(Please note that if you are eligible for the UC Retirement Choice Program and elect Savings Choice, it does not include UCRP survivor or death benefits, so it is not necessary to establish your partnership with UC. However, the vested balance of your Savings Choice account can be left to your beneficiaries, as explained in #5.)
Resources
Declaration of Domestic Partnership (UBEN 250) PDF
Understand the tax implications.
The value of UC’s portion of your medical, dental and vision coverage for anyone who is not your tax dependent is considered imputed income and may be subject to FICA (Social Security and Medicare) taxes, federal income tax and any other required payroll tax.
Read more about imputed income here
.
If you decide to change your tax withholding, you can do so on
UCPath
.
Resources
Imputed Income
UCPath
Update your beneficiaries.
You can change your beneficiaries online. Change your UC Retirement Plan (including Pension Choice) and insurance plan beneficiaries on
UC Retirement At Your Service (UCRAYS)
. Change your Savings Choice plan and Retirement Savings Program beneficiaries on the
My UC Retirement website
.
Resources
UCRAYS
myUCretirement
A new employee
Adding a family member to your insurance
Adopting a child
Applying for disability
Changing jobs within UC
Changing your address
Enrolling in Medicare
Establishing a domestic partnership
Facing a layoff
Getting married
Going on military leave
Having a baby
Laid off temporarily
Leaving UC employment
Lo despiden temporalmente
Preparing for retirement
Removing a family member from insurance
Taking a furlough
Taking a leave of absence
Taking a sabbatical
Taking paid leave