https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/benefits/retirement/retirement-planning-resources/the-no-lapse-in-pay-retirement-option/

The “No lapse in pay” retirement option | UCnet
Skip to content
Employee benefits
Retirement
Retirement planning resources
The “No lapse in pay” retirement option
The “No lapse in pay” retirement option
The “no lapse in pay” option guarantees the continuation of income and medical and dental benefits (if you’re currently enrolled and eligible for benefits as a retiree) as you transition to retirement. If you’re approved as a January 6 retiree, you will receive your first retirement benefit payment on February 1.
Employees interested in this option must
submit all
required documentation
by the appropriate deadline and meet eligibility requirements (see
Before you apply
)
.
On this page:
How it works
Before you apply
If you don’t qualify for “no lapse in pay”
Preparing for retirement
Questions?
Ver en español
How it works
If you’re approved for “no lapse in pay,” you’ll be notified by email and through your UCRAYS account.
Since you’re guaranteed a benefit payment on February 1, you will no longer see the Retirement Application Progress tracker on the UCRAYS home page.
Pay attention to your UCRAYS secure messages, though, in case there are questions about your application.
Your February 1 payment will be either your calculated benefit amount or your estimated benefit as it appeared on your Personal Retirement Profile; for most members, these two amounts are identical. If there are differences between the estimated benefit and the calculated amount, your benefit payment and premium deductions will be adjusted.
Before you apply
This option is only available for retirements at the beginning of January or July if they do not require special processing.
Unfortunately, a number of circumstances can make a prospective retiree ineligible for “no lapse in pay,” such as:
You are choosing a lump sum cashout
You have reciprocity with CalPERS or CalSTRS
You have UCRP service credit in more than one retirement tier
Your UCRP benefit is subject to the
Section 415 limit
You have a legal obligation to divide your UCRP benefits (for example, in the event of a divorce, legal separation or termination of a domestic partnership) that has not been finalized
If you think you may qualify and would like to apply,
click the “No Lapse in Pay” opt-in box when you begin the retirement process in UC Retirement At Your Service (
UCRAYS
)
. You can also submit the No Lapse in Pay Request form (U168), but completing the process online is much easier and more efficient.
To be approved, the RASC must receive your No Lapse in Pay electronic opt-in or form, your signed Monthly Retirement Income election and all
required documentation
(submitted via
UCRAYS
secure message or eFax) by the appropriate deadline (November 14, for a January 6 retirement).
If you don’t qualify for “no lapse in pay”
It is UC’s goal to process your retirement and provide a statement confirming your retirement benefit within 45 business days of receiving your signed election. Please note that delays in receiving your
required documentation
can delay the process.
For all prospective retirees, it’s important to prepare ahead of time and stay on top of the retirement process. Please note the important dates and deadlines below.
Preparing for retirement
Whenever you plan to retire, taking the steps below as soon as possible will make the process easier:
Gather
required documentation
— such as acceptable evidence of birth (for a spouse, domestic partner or a contingent annuitant), marriage and/or domestic partnership — so your retirement won’t be delayed if you need to order a replacement copy.
If you may be eligible for Medicare, read the
Medicare Fact Sheet PDF
to find out what you need to do to enroll and coordinate with your UC medical plan.
If you have service credit with
CalPERS
or
CalSTRS
, read the fact sheet on
UCRP/CalPERS Reciprocity PDF
or on
UCRP/CalSTRS Concurrent Retirement PDF
to learn more about your eligibility and any additional steps you need to take.
If you may be required to divide property due to a divorce, legal separation or termination of a domestic partnership, check with your legal advisor to make sure you have the documentation you need. See the
Qualified Domestic Relations Order (QDRO) Fact Sheet PDF
for details.
What to do when you’re preparing for retirement
is a step-by-step guide to the retirement process, with links to the resources you’ll need along the way — whether you choose to retire using UCRAYS (your most efficient option) or paper forms.
Register for a live
retirement planning webinar:
Preparing for Retirement
— offered the first Tuesday of each month from 10 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
Retiree Health Benefits
— offered the third Wednesday of each month from 2-4 p.m.
The UC Retirement Process from Start to Finish
: offered monthly on Thursday mornings,  10 a.m.–11:30 p.m. and Wednesday evenings, 5:30–8 p.m.
Questions?
Call 1-800-888-8267, Monday–Friday,
7 a.m
. to 4:30 p.m. (PT) to speak to a UC Retirement Administration Service Center representative. You can also send a secure message through
UCRAYS
.
Schedule a retirement counseling appointment online at
rasc.universityofcalifornia.edu/retirement-counseling.
More information
UC Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC)
UCRAYS
myUCretirement
Retirement benefits
Roadmap: Preparing for retirement
Documents and forms
Request for Retirement Initiation Packet PDF
Retirement Handbook PDF
Complete Retirement Benefits Guide for Employees PDF
UCRP Summary Plan Description for 2013 Tier Members PDF
UCRP 1976 Tier Summary Plan Description PDF
403(b) Summary Plan Description PDF
457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan PDF
Defined Contribution Plan Summary Plan Description PDF
Medicare Fact Sheet PDF
Employee benefits
Retirement planning webinars
Retirement planning webinars: Supplemental resources
The “No lapse in pay” retirement option