https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/category/wellness/

Wellness Archives | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
Employee News
Wellness
Wellness
Whole health recovery promotes healing from substance use disorder
September 23, 2025
UC Davis Health psychologist Nicole Schultz shares an update on how new treatments and ideology support people through the recovery process.
Why preventive care is important
September 3, 2025
Preventive care isn’t just about avoiding illness. It’s about investing in a stronger, healthier future for yourself, your family and your community.
Getting help during challenging times
August 13, 2025
If you’ve been feeling anxious, depressed or overwhelmed, or if you’re having difficulty being centered and purposeful, these resources can help.
A UC pediatrician shares what you need to know about children’s vaccines
August 13, 2025
Immunizations protect children against diseases and reduce the risk of serious, life-threatening infections.
Research shows that music may benefit our brains
July 23, 2025
Julene Johnson, Ph.D., of the UCSF School of Nursing’s Institute for Health and Aging,  shares how music promotes healthy brain function.
UC’s free Diabetes Prevention Program dramatically reduces participants’ risk of developing diabetes
May 19, 2025
UC’s Diabetes Prevention Program is a one-year lifestyle change program that is proven to cut the risk of type 2 diabetes in half.
A holistic approach to health for every stage of women’s lives
May 1, 2025
Women’s health needs evolve over time, requiring personalized care at every life stage. Get expert advice about steps you can take to maintain your well-being …
Research-proven steps to pollution-proof your skin
April 11, 2025
You just need a few essentials to fend off pollution-related issues and give your skin the support it needs.
Seven ways to shift your difficult emotions
February 11, 2025
UC Berkeley’s Greater Good Science Center shares seven techniques for facing emotional challenges recommended by neuroscientist Ethan Kross.
UC’s WorkStrong program positions workplace injury as an opportunity for growth
February 6, 2025
The UC WorkStrong program provides personalized recovery support for employees who are injured on the job, helping to prevent future injuries.
Posts navigation
1
2
3
4
Next
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness