https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/employee-news/new-webinar-series-focuses-on-legacy-planning/

New webinar series focuses on legacy planning | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
Retirees
New webinar series focuses on legacy planning
New webinar series focuses on legacy planning
August 11, 2025
Share This Article
Please note:
The article below was initially shared in print and online before myUCretirement.com had been updated with registration information for Part 1 of this series. We apologize for any confusion this caused. Registration information is now available on
myUCretirement.com/webinars/calendar
and below.
Planning for the future is one of the most meaningful ways to care for your loved ones — and yourself. That’s why UC is introducing a new three-part webinar series, “Legacy Planning — Peace of Mind for You and Your Loved Ones,” in August. Designed with UC retirees and their survivors in mind, this series — part of the “Confident Retiree” webinar program — offers guidance on organizing your affairs, protecting your loved ones financially and ensuring your wishes are known.
Each session is designed to help you take manageable steps toward peace of mind. Here’s what’s planned for the series:
Part 1: Estate Planning Essentials — Preserving Your Savings for Future Generations
This webinar explores estate planning fundamentals to help you protect what you’ve worked hard to save. Topics include planning documents to consider, additional estate considerations, and tips on how to get started with the process.
Register for the live session at noon on August 19, 2025
Part 2: Getting Your Affairs in Order — Essential Planning for Peace of Mind
Taking small, practical steps now can make a big difference for your loved ones later. This session highlights ways to get organized, including how to review and update your beneficiaries and gather the documents and details your family may need in the future.
Part 3: Essential Steps for Survivors of UC Retirees to Access UC Benefits and More
The final session focuses on helping your loved ones navigate the process of accessing UC benefits. It covers important topics such as the documents needed to access financial and legal accounts, provides an overview of UC survivor benefits, and explains how to access UC retirement, health and welfare benefits. The Legacy Planning series is scheduled to launch in August 2025 with Part 1: Estate Planning Essentials followed by the other two webinars. UC retirees and their loved ones are encouraged to attend.
To learn more, including session dates, times, and registration details, please visit the
Webinars Calendar page on myUCretirement.com
.
Keep Reading
Protect your loved ones: Keep your beneficiary designations up to date
August 12, 2025
You worked hard to earn your UC benefits, designed to protect you and your family. Take a moment to ensure these benefits are available for …
Stand up for UC!
August 11, 2025
The future of the nation’s leading public university system is at stake. The federal government’s demand of $1 billion from UCLA would devastate one of …
UCPath has a new look to better serve you!
July 15, 2025
UCPath’s new, modern portal design to help UC employees more easily access pay, benefits and personal information.
Employee News
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness