https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/employee-news/protect-your-loved-ones-keep-your-beneficiary-designations-up-to-date/

Protect your loved ones: Keep your beneficiary designations up to date | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
Employment
Protect your loved ones: Keep your beneficiary designations up to date
Protect your loved ones: Keep your beneficiary designations up to date
August 12, 2025
Share This Article
You worked hard to earn your UC benefits, designed to protect you and your family. Take a moment to ensure these benefits are available for your loved ones when needed.
It’s important to review each of your UC benefit accounts to make sure your personal information and your beneficiary information — who you’ve designated for each account and how to contact them — is up to date. Depending on your benefits, you’ll need to designate beneficiaries for:
UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefits
Accidental death & dismemberment (AD&D) insurance
UC Retirement Savings Plan accounts (including Savings Choice, Pension Choice supplemental accounts and other DC, 403(b) and 457(b) Plans)
Please note:
If you are married, your spouse may have a legal interest in benefits payable upon your death. A beneficiary designation may be challenged if it reduces your spouse’s share of the community property benefit.
How to designate and update beneficiaries
You can update beneficiaries online through your secure UC Retirement At Your Service (UCRAYS) and/or Fidelity NetBenefits accounts. Here’s how:
UCRAYS: UCRP and AD&D
Log in to UCRAYS (
retirementatyourservice.ucop.edu
) and click “Manage Contacts” on the main menu. On the Manage Contacts page, click “Manage Beneficiaries,” and complete the steps to add and/or update your beneficiary information. A confirmation will be sent to your email address on file.
Make sure your contact and beneficiary information is complete and accurate.
Fidelity: UC Retirement Savings Plan accounts
Log in to your
netbenefits.com
account and click on “Profile.” Note that you need to designate a beneficiary for every UC Retirement Savings Plan account you own.
In addition to keeping your beneficiary information up to date, you can review and edit personal and contact information, and choose how you would like to receive important information. A telephone number is required for multi-factor authentication on netbenefits.com.
How to help your beneficiaries prepare
These can be difficult conversations, and it is advisable to inform those whom you have designated as beneficiaries about the process and the benefits they may expect to receive.
Representatives at Fidelity (866-682-7787) and the UC Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC; 800-888-8267) are ready to help.
Keep Reading
Six UC locations recognized in recent Forbes workplace rankings
September 25, 2025
The rankings, which are based on current and former employee surveys, recognize company culture and health care workplace excellence.
UCnetwork: September 2025
September 17, 2025
Read our University of California systemwide staff newsletter for updates on staff achievements, research, benefits and more.
Go paperless with UCPath
September 11, 2025
There are many good reasons to go paperless, and UCPath makes it easy to do so. You can sign up for electronic delivery of your …
Employee News
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness