https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/employee-news/celebrate-hispanic-heritage-month-with-uc-3/

Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month with UC | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
People and community
Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month with UC
Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month with UC
September 12, 2025
Share This Article
Jennifer Ortiz, while a student at UC, holds a sample of her work, which is inspired by traditional embroidered patterns from her mother’s hometown of Puebla, Mexico.
Credit: Elena Zhukova/UC
From September 15 to October 15, UC is recognizing the significant accomplishments of the Latino community during National Hispanic Heritage Month. Join us in celebrating this cherished annual celebration with events and resources from throughout UC.
Zoom backgrounds
Display your pride for UC’s connections to the Hispanic community by downloading a Zoom background with the Spanish version of the UC wordmark. Files are available with and without the Hispanic Heritage Month tagline:
Download Zoom background with “Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month” tagline
Download Zoom background with Spanish-language wordmark only
Virtual events
The following events are free and accessible to all members of the UC community. All listings reflect Pacific time. Select each link for registration details.
UC Berkeley Library National Hispanic American Heritage Month Celebration 2025
Sept. 16, 12:45 p.m.
Join us for a webinar spotlighting the research and contributions of three distinguished scholars whose work enriches our understanding of Latin American and Afro-Latinx communities through social policy, culture, and education. This event will feature Janaina Campos Lobo, Ph.D., professor of humanities at UNILAB in northeastern Brazil; Nodia C. Mena, Ph.D., Spanish lecturer at Guilford College; Mariela Noles Cotito, Ph.D., professor of discrimination and public policy at Universidad del Pacífico in Lima; and Antonia Mardones Marshall, Ph.D., assistant professor of education at the University of Tarapacá and principal investigator at the MIGRA Millennium Nucleus.
Latinas in Agriculture
Sept. 17, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UC Agriculture and Natural Resources (ANR) Latinx and Friends employee resource group (ERG) for a conversation with
Ofelia Lichtenheld, agave producer and member of California’s Women Agave Growers Collective; Claudia Quezada, environmental justice coordinator for
Líderes Campesinas
, one of California’s most influential grassroots organizations supporting farmworker women; and Ricardo Vela, Emmy-winning journalist and manager of news and information outreach in Spanish at UC ANR.
*Note that this webinar will be conducted in Spanish and simultaneously interpreted in English.
Legacy, Science and Deportation
Sept. 24, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UC ANR Latinx and Friends ERG for a conversation between Adriana Mejía Briscoe, Ph.D., professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at UC Irvine, and
Ricardo Vela, Emmy-winning journalist and manager of news and information outreach in Spanish at UC ANR. While tracing her ancestry, Dr. Adriana Mejía Briscoe uncovered a century-old corrido written by her great-great-grandfather about the mass deportations of Mexicans in the 1930s. The discovery connected her personal story to a larger narrative of resilience and displacement in Mexican American history.
*Note that this webinar will be conducted in Spanish and simultaneously interpreted in English.
Virtual Poetry Reading Cafecito
Sept. 29, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UCSF Chicané Latiné Campus Association for a Virtual Poetry Reading Cafecito. Led by our own Roberto Ariel Vargas, we’ll read and share excerpts from some of our favorite Latiné poets, celebrating the richness of our culture, voices and community. Bring your cafecito, your heart and your voice!
Deportations – Then and Now
Oct. 1, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UC ANR Latinx and Friends ERG for a conversation between Isidro Ortiz, Ph.D., professor of Chicana and Chicano studies at San Diego State University, and
Ricardo Vela, Emmy-winning journalist and manager of news and information outreach in Spanish at UC ANR. Dr. Ortiz is a leading scholar on Latino politics, education and public policy. Over his career, he has analyzed the historical and contemporary impact of deportation policies on Latino communities, offering critical insight into how these forces shape identity, opportunity and family life.
Powering Progress: Latinos Propel Growth of California’s World-Leading Economy
Oct. 6,
12 – 1 p.m.
In honor of Latinx Heritage Month, the Office of Inclusive Excellence at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA joins the Latino Coalition for a Healthy California and UCLA’s Center for the Study of Latino Health and Culture to spotlight the powerful role Latinos play in shaping California’s future. With a GDP now surpassing $1 trillion, on par with some of the world’s largest economies, Latinos are driving growth through educational achievement and workforce participation. This briefing will explore new data on Latino economic contributions and examine why protecting health coverage is essential to sustaining California’s leadership. Speakers will include David E. Hayes-Bautista, M.D., distinguished professor of medicine and director of the Center for the Study of Latino Health and Culture, and Matthew Fienup, Ph.D., executive director of the Center for Economic Research & Forecasting and associate professor of economics at California Lutheran University.
Should Latino Farmworkers Be at the Center of UC ANR’s Work?
Oct. 8, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UC ANR Latinx and Friends ERG for a conversation between Katherine Jarvis-Shean, Ph.D., orchard systems advisor at UC ANR, and
Ricardo Vela, Emmy-winning journalist and manager of news and information outreach in Spanish at UC ANR. As a Cooperative Extension orchard systems advisor, Dr. Jarvis-Shean provides practical, science-based solutions to growers while also questioning how agricultural research can better serve the labor force that sustains California’s farms. Her leadership in outreach and applied research underscores the need to place farmworkers at the center of the conversation about agriculture’s future.
Celebrating Our Own – UC ANR Hispanic of the Year 2025: Ana Pastrana
Oct. 15, 12 – 1 p.m.
Join the UC ANR Latinx and Friends ERG for a conversation between Ana Pastrana, Ph.D., UC ANR’s plant pathology advisor for Southern California, and
Ricardo Vela, Emmy-winning journalist and manager of news and information outreach in Spanish at UC ANR. Dr. Pastrana has dedicated her career to helping growers prevent and manage crop diseases, strengthening harvests and community resilience. UC ANR proudly honors her as the 2025 Hispanic of the Year for her outstanding contributions to California agriculture and the communities she serves. Following the tribute to Dr. Pastrana, UC ANR Vice President Dr. Glenda Humiston will share closing reflections on the importance of equity, inclusion and innovation in serving California’s diverse communities — reaffirming UC ANR’s commitment to advancing opportunity for all.
Reading lists and campus resources
UC Berkeley Equity & Inclusion:
Latinx Heritage Month webpage
UC Berkeley Library:
Recently published Latinx literature in the Library’s collection
UC Davis Center for Chicanx and Latinx Academic Student Success:
Latinx Heritage Month
UCLA Newsroom:
In Focus: National Hispanic Heritage Month
UC Merced Library:
National Hispanic Heritage Month reading list
UC Merced Newsroom:
Hispanic/LatinX Heritage Month
UC San Diego:
5th Annual Latinx Heritage Month Commemoration
UCSF Multicultural Resource Center:
Latinx Heritage Month at UCSF
UC Santa Barbara Library:
Chicana/o Studies Hispanic Heritage Month Guide
UC Santa Barbara College of Engineering:
Hispanic and Latinx STEM-discipline trailblazers
Latinx community employee resource groups
Lawrence Berkeley National Lab:
Latin American & Native American (LANA) Employee Resource Group
UC Berkeley:
Alianza Staff Organization
UC Davis:
Latinx Staff & Faculty Association
UC Irvine:
Chicano/Latino Staff Association
UCLA:
Latino Staff & Faculty Association
UC Office of the President:
Latinx Staff Association
UC Riverside:
Latina/Chicana Staff & Faculty Group
UC San Diego:
Chicanx/Latinx Staff Association
UCSF:
Chicané Latiné
Campus Association
UC alumni connection
Systemwide:
UC Chicanx Latinx Alumni Association
Do you have a related UC resource or event to share that is free, open and accessible to UC community members at all locations? Send the details to
ucnetwork@universityofcalifornia.edu
. We will be happy to add your listing to this page.
Keep Reading
Six UC locations recognized in recent Forbes workplace rankings
September 25, 2025
The rankings, which are based on current and former employee surveys, recognize company culture and health care workplace excellence.
UC People: Juyung Yoo, preservationist
September 24, 2025
The UC Natural Reserve System introduced Juyung to the concept of field research and changed the trajectory of his life.
Four UC Health medical centers highlighted in Vizient’s 2025 rankings
September 23, 2025
These competitive national awards recognized UC hospitals for their efforts in delivering exceptional patient care.
Employee News
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness