https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/employee-news/ucpath-has-a-new-look-to-better-serve-you/

UCPath has a new look to better serve you! | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
Employment
UCPath has a new look to better serve you!
UCPath has a new look to better serve you!
July 15, 2025
Share This Article
UCPath’s refreshed, modern layout, improved navigation and mobile-friendly access will make it easier than ever to review and update your pay, benefits and personal information.
(Credit: UCPath/University of California)
On July 14, 2025, UCPath launched a new, modern portal design to help UC employees more easily access pay, benefits and personal information.
Designed in response to customer feedback, employee surveys and targeted focus groups, the redesign is the result of a thoughtful, human-centered process aimed at making your experience better.
Customer-focused updates
Mobile-friendly layout:
Whether you’re using a computer, tablet or smartphone, the responsive new design adjusts to fit your screen.
Intuitive navigation:
Descriptive menu and dashboard labels — including Personal Information, Income & Taxes, Benefits & Retirement, and Accruals & Leaves — let you find what you need, with fewer clicks. It’s easier than ever to view pay statements, update personal information and complete other common tasks.
Improved benefits enrollment experience:
Step-by-step enrollment guides walk you through life event changes and benefit enrollment activities; you can also now download your benefits summary after completing enrollment.
Dedicated hub for managers and transactors:
When you access UCPath on behalf of someone else, you can quickly jump to the information you need.
Improved formatting for alerts and notices:
Find and respond to account updates quickly.
Behind-the-scenes tech improvements:
Improved system performance, accessibility and search make it easier to find features and resources to meet specific needs.
Best of all, there’s no action required on your part — your UCPath login and access will stay the same.
Log in to UCPath
to access support resources and tutorials, or for specific questions,
contact UCPath
.
Keep Reading
Six UC locations recognized in recent Forbes workplace rankings
September 25, 2025
The rankings, which are based on current and former employee surveys, recognize company culture and health care workplace excellence.
UCnetwork: September 2025
September 17, 2025
Read our University of California systemwide staff newsletter for updates on staff achievements, research, benefits and more.
Go paperless with UCPath
September 11, 2025
There are many good reasons to go paperless, and UCPath makes it easy to do so. You can sign up for electronic delivery of your …
Employee News
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness