https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/employee-news/several-uc-health-leaders-recognized-for-industry-excellence/

Several UC Health leaders recognized for industry excellence | UCnet
Skip to content
Home
People and community
Several UC Health leaders recognized for industry excellence
Several UC Health leaders recognized for industry excellence
September 15, 2025
Share This Article
Suresh Gunasekaran, MBA, president and CEO of UCSF Health, is among several University of California Health leaders who were recently recognized for excellence by Becker’s Healthcare.
Credit: UCSF
From Aug. 8 to Sept. 8, 2025, 13 University of California Health leaders from five UC academic medical centers were recognized in Becker’s Hospital Review for excellence in the health care field. Congratulations to the following colleagues!
Academic medical center CEOs to know
Per Becker’s Healthcare: “
Academic medical center CEOs
are at the helm of some of the most complex and influential organizations in healthcare. These executives guide institutions that serve as hubs for discovery and innovation, overseeing groundbreaking clinical trials, pioneering technologies and novel treatment models.”
Suresh Gunasekaran, President and CEO of UCSF Health
Chad T. Lefteris, President and CEO of UC Irvine Health
Patty Maysent, CEO of UC San Diego Health
Johnese Spisso, President of UCLA Health, CEO of the UCLA Hospital System and Associate Vice Chancellor of UCLA Health Sciences
Academic medical center CFOs to know
Per Becker’s Healthcare: “At the financial helm of academic medical centers are
CFOs
, who manage massive budgets and ensure resources are aligned to support both clinical excellence and academic innovation.”
Jennifer Doll, CFO of UC Davis Health
Lori Donaldson, CFO of UC San Diego Health
Randolph Siwabessy, Senior Vice President and CFO of UC Irvine Health
Tammy Wallace, CFO of UCLA Health
Rising stars: 100 healthcare leaders under 40
Per Becker’s Healthcare: “A new generation of bold, innovative healthcare leaders is making healthcare more accessible, affordable and seamless for patients everywhere. These
rising professionals
, serving in diverse roles across the industry, share a common goal of transforming healthcare for the better.”
Doug Turner, Vice President of Enterprise Applications at UC Irvine Health
Hospital and health system supply chain leaders to know
Per Becker’s Healthcare: “
Supply chain leaders
are behind-the-scenes strategists who keep hospitals and health systems running smoothly and efficiently. With deep expertise in healthcare supply chain management, they deliver cost savings, build strong strategic partnerships and ensure critical inventory is available.”
Susanna Rustad, Chief Procurement Officer and Vice President of Supply Chain Management and Care at Home Platform at UC Irvine Health
Patient safety experts to know
Per Becker’s Healthcare: “The following
patient safety experts
are unwavering champions for patient harm reduction, disease management and disaster preparedness. Representing various roles across hospitals, health systems and healthcare companies, they all share a common goal of keeping patients safe and satisfied.”
Chandra Broadwater, System Director of Quality, Patient Safety and Transformation at UC Irvine Health
Amy Lu, M.D., Chief Quality Officer at UCSF Health
Becca Rutledge, Manager of Patient Safety and Transformation at UC Irvine Health
For more University of California Health updates, visit the
UC Health Newsroom
.
Keep Reading
Six UC locations recognized in recent Forbes workplace rankings
September 25, 2025
The rankings, which are based on current and former employee surveys, recognize company culture and health care workplace excellence.
UC People: Juyung Yoo, preservationist
September 24, 2025
The UC Natural Reserve System introduced Juyung to the concept of field research and changed the trajectory of his life.
Four UC Health medical centers highlighted in Vizient’s 2025 rankings
September 23, 2025
These competitive national awards recognized UC hospitals for their efforts in delivering exceptional patient care.
Employee News
Employment
En español
People and community
Retirees
UC news
Wellness