https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/

Home | UCnet
Skip to content
An update from UC President Milliken
“We begin the academic year with excitement and purpose, but also with recognition that this is a very challenging time for the University of California and higher education more broadly.”
Read President Milliken’s message
Read all employee news
Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month with UC
UC is marking this cherished annual recognition with virtual events and resources from throughout the system.
Celebrate with us!
Read all employee news
Thrilling progress in brain-computer interfaces from UC labs
Read the article
Read all employee news
Federal updates
With quickly evolving federal policy shifts underway, the University of California is working diligently to monitor these developments and seek clarity on a range of issues.
Read the latest updates
Read all employee news
Slide
1
of 4
Read all employee news
Our future is at stake.
Find out how UC is standing together, and what you can do to help.
Stand up for UC
New to UC?
Welcome! Check out everything you need to know and do as a new employee.
Welcome to UC!
Benefits updates
—
Why preventive care is important
—
UCPath has a new look
Learn about UC benefits
Sign in or get help
Select your role to view your benefits accounts and resources.
I am a…
Select Role
Faculty/Staff
Retiree
Former employee
UCPath
Manage your health and welfare benefits and payroll.
Manage your health and welfare benefits and payroll.
Sign in to UCPath
UCRAYS
Manage your pension and retiree health benefits.
Manage your pension and retiree health benefits.
Manage your pension and retiree health benefits.
Sign in to UCRAYS
myUCretirement.com
Check out financial resources and sign in to NetBenefits to manage your UC Retirement Savings Program account.
Check out financial resources and sign in to NetBenefits to manage your UC Retirement Savings Program account.
Check out financial resources and sign in to NetBenefits to manage your UC Retirement Savings Program account.
Visit myUCretirement.com
RASC
Get help with your retirement, pension and retiree health benefits.
Get help with your retirement, pension and retiree health benefits.
Get help with your retirement, pension and retiree health benefits.
Find out more about RASC
Campus/Location HR Sites
Get help from people at your location.
Get help with special issues at your location.
Find location contacts
You belong at UC
Working at UC means making a difference in the world and creating a brighter future for everyone. We are one of the largest employers and best places to work in California, with a vibrant, diverse community of people from all walks of life, in every type of job imaginable.
Join us.
Keyword Search
Job Location
Show results at all locations
Berkeley
Davis
Irvine
Los Angeles
Merced
Riverside
San Diego
San Francisco
Santa Barbara
Santa Cruz
Davis Health System
Irvine Healthcare
Los Angeles Medical Center
San Diego Health System
San Francisco Medical Center
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Office of the President
UCPath Center
Search
Advanced Search