https://myucretirement.com/peer-paths/working-savings

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Peer Paths
Working & Saving
Peer Paths Overview
Newly Eligible
Working & Saving
Ready to Retire
In Retirement
Survivors & Others
Pursue your goals during your working years.
Use these tips to make the most of your money today, so you can do a whole lot more tomorrow.
Stay on track for retirement
Check your UC Retirement Review to see the retirement income you could have from all your UC benefits.
See your estimated retirement income
The Retirement Review tool provides you a Retirement Readiness score, which is the percentage of your current income available to you at retirement. Model changes to inputs like your retirement age or contribution rate and see how it may improve your income in retirement.
Get your Retirement Review
Supplement your savings
Enroll in UC's tax-advantaged plans.
Participation in one of the primary retirement benefit options is required, while enrolling in UC’s supplemental benefits is voluntary.
ENROLL IN THE UC RETIREMENT SAVINGS PROGRAM
Maximize your retirement savings through the UC 403(b) or 457(b) plan. Both allow you to save more on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis. You can also make after-tax contributions to the DC plan.
Next Steps
Learn more about the
403(b)
,
457(b)
, and
DC Plans
Get help deciding between the 403(b) and 457(b) Plans
Ready to Enroll?
You can enroll and manage your Retirement Savings Plan accounts on NetBenefits
®
.
Enroll on NetBenefits
Get help with your financial questions
Get one-on-one, personal help with financial planning questions at no cost to you.
Get help from a Fidelity Retirement Planner
Meet one-on-one with a UC-dedicated retirement planner by phone or in person for help with all of life’s money matters, from paying down debt and budgeting, to saving and investing for retirement.
Next Steps
Contact Fidelity at
1-800-558-9182
Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (PT) or schedule a virtual one-on-one.
Schedule a virtual one-on-one
Quick Links
Attend a webinar
Need help?
ADDITIONAL LEARNING
View All Resources
View All Resources
ARTICLE
What to do with your old 403(b)
Roll your old retirement accounts into your UC 403(b) or 457(b).
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
ARTICLE
UC’s Chief Investment Officer talks about investing for retirement
When it comes to retirement, how you invest is as important as how much you save.
ARTICLE
Introduction to the UC Fund Menu
How much do you know about the investments that are available in the UC 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans?
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...