https://myucretirement.com/peer-paths/other

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Peer Paths
Survivors & Others
Peer Paths Overview
Newly Eligible
Working & Saving
Ready to Retire
In Retirement
Survivors & Others
Are you a survivor, beneficiary, another recipient of retirement benefits (e.g., an alternate payee), or no longer at UC?
Explore these resources to understand your retirement benefits and, if you have left UC, how to keep your retirement savings working for you.
For Family Members and Beneficiaries of Active UC Employees
Understand the steps you need to take if your loved one was an active UC employee.
SURVIVOR & BENEFICIARY BENEFITS – ACTIVE UC EMPLOYEES
This guide summarizes the benefits and claims process for survivors of UC employees, including important steps you must take before benefits can be paid.
Your Guide to Survivor & Beneficiary Benefits for Family Members & Beneficiaries of Active UC Employees
For Family Members and Beneficiaries of Former UC Employees
Know what to do if your loved one was a former UC employee.
SURVIVOR & BENEFICIARY BENEFITS – FORMER UC EMPLOYEES
This guide summarizes the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefits that may be available if the former UC employee was an inactive member of UCRP. Understand the benefits you are eligible to receive and the steps you need to take before benefits can be paid.
Your Guide to Survivor & Beneficiary Benefits for Family Members & Beneficiaries of Former UC Employees
For Family Members and Beneficiaries of UC Retirees and Disabled Members Receiving UCRP Income
The steps you need to take if your loved one was a retiree.
SURVIVOR & BENEFICIARY BENEFITS – UC RETIREES AND DISABLED MEMBERS
This guide summarizes the benefits and claims process for survivors, beneficiaries and contingent annuitants of UC retirees, and the steps you must take if you are eligible for benefits as a survivor.
Your Guide to Survivor & Beneficiary Benefits for Family Members & Beneficiaries of UC Retirees & Disabled Members Receiving UCRP Income
Get 1:1 Support from the UC Retirement Service Center (RASC)
RASC Retirement Counselors can help guide you through the process
SURVIVOR SUPPORT TEAM
The UC Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) has a team dedicated to serving the survivors and beneficiaries of UC employees and retirees. Service center representatives can answer questions and guide you through the process of claiming any benefits for which you are eligible.
Call 1-888-825-6833
Monday–Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (PT)
After hours? Please leave a voicemail and a representative will return your call.
Mail
UC Retirement Administration Service Center
P.O. Box 24570
Oakland, CA 94623-1570
Alternate Payees (divorce, legal separation, termination of a domestic partnership)
Understand the process for dividing retirement benefits.
Dividing retirement benefits due to divorce, legal separation of termination of a domestic partnership can be complex. The resource below can guide you through the process and make the division of UC retirement benefits as straightforward as possible.
Domestic Relations Order (DRO) Fact Sheet
For those no longer employed by UC
Learn how to keep your retirement savings working for you.
Leaving UC doesn’t mean you have to give up the benefits of being a UC investor. Staying in your UC plan means your money will continue to benefit from generally low fees and tax-deferred growth potential. Here are a few things to consider:
If you have accounts in multiple UC plans — a balance in both the 403(b) Plan and the 457(b) Plan, for example — consolidating your multiple accounts into one UC plan could help you manage and monitor your assets more easily.
You can consolidate outside assets into your UC plan, too.
Learn more
about how to keep your retirement savings working for you when you leave UC.
Additional Resources
UBEN 175 – Lived Name and/or Gender Identity Information Form for Retirees/ Survivors and Former Employees
Essential Steps to Access UC Benefits: A Checklist for Survivors of UC Retirees
ADDITIONAL LEARNING
View All Resources
View All Resources
ARTICLE
403(b) or 457(b): Which should you choose?
You owe it to yourself to explore UC’s 403(b) and 457(b) Plans.
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...