https://myucretirement.com/peer-paths/in-retirement

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Peer Paths
In Retirement
Peer Paths Overview
Newly Eligible
Working & Saving
Ready to Retire
In Retirement
Survivors & Others
In retirement? Consider these next steps.
Now that you are retired, it’s more important than ever to plan for what’s ahead.
Plan for income later in life
A good income plan helps organize your finances, guide your decisions, and prepare you for the unexpected.
Create an income plan to help make your money last
Explore retirement income strategies that can help you keep the income from your retirement savings flowing through all the years of your life.
Learn More
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Four steps to help make your money last
Three tax and retirement income planning moves for retirees
Will inflation deflate your retirement savings?
Four ways to help manage your cash in retirement
Explore Deferred Lifetime Income
Available through the UC Pathway Funds, Deferred Lifetime Income is designed to let you convert a portion of your UC 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan balance into fixed monthly payments beginning at age 78, when you may need it most. You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income for yourself, or for yourself and your spouse.
Learn about Deferred Lifetime Income
Review your savings accounts and investment strategy
Continue maximizing your savings, even in retirement, through the UC Retirement Savings Program.
Consider consolidating your RSP accounts into a single plan
Remember that you can keep your money in the UC Retirement Savings Program (RSP) — your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plans, as long as your balance in each RSP account is greater than $2,000. These plans provide access to low-cost funds including the UC Pathway Income Fund that is designed for people living in retirement.
Consider consolidating your RSP accounts into a single plan so you can manage your assets more easily. You can also move outside assets into the RSP — even though you no longer work for UC.
You can set up recurring automatic withdrawals from your RSP account, directly into your bank account or by check, online at
NetBenefits
®
or by calling Fidelity at
1-800-558-9182
.
Learn More
How to keep your retirement savings working when you leave UC
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
Take Action
Manage accounts on NetBenefits
Review your investment strategy and portfolio mix
Investment growth plays an important role in a retirement income strategy, and an appropriate investment mix is essential to smart investing. As investments gain or lose value, you should review and adjust your mix of stocks, bonds and cash to ensure it remains in balance.
If you prefer a simpler approach to investing, you may want to consider the UC Pathway Income Fund, which aims to help preserve your savings, but still seeks growth for a retirement that may last for decades. It’s also designed to help support your retirement income strategy.
Learn More
Review the investment options available through the UC Retirement Savings Program
Attend the "Investing Basics for Retirees" webinar
Take Action
Manage investments on NetBenefits
Target Date Funds are an asset mix of stocks, bonds and other investments that automatically becomes more conservative as the fund approaches its target retirement date and beyond. Principal invested is not guaranteed.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE, SIPC, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2020-2024 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
908816.3.0
Get help with your retirement questions
Receive both personal one-on-one help and watch educational webinars at no cost to you.
Attend a webinar
There are live and on-demand classes dedicated to retirees that cover topics such as investing in retirement, financial fraud, and retiree health.
Explore webinars
Get help from a Fidelity Retirement Planner
Get help creating — or fine-tuning — your retirement income plan and investment strategy, and learn how to use the many tools available to you. UC offers free personal, one-on-one retirement and investment help from a UC-dedicated retirement planner.
Next Steps
Contact Fidelity at
1-800-558-9182
Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (PT) or schedule a virtual one-on-one.
Schedule a virtual one-on-one
Update your beneficiaries
Help ensure your loved ones have financial security.
It’s important to name beneficiaries for all your UC retirement benefit plans. Even if you’ve already named beneficiaries, you should review and update them periodically
—
especially if you've experienced a life event.
READY TO DESIGNATE?
On NetBenefits
®
, you can assign beneficiaries to your 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan accounts (including Savings Choice, Pension Choice DC Supplement).
On UCRAYS, you can assign beneficiaries for your UC Retirement Plan benefit, including Pension Choice.
Go to NetBenefits
Go to UCRAYS
Additional Resources
How to update your beneficiary
Your Guide to Survivor and Beneficiary Benefits
(for family members and beneficiaries of former UC employees)
Additional Resources
"New Dimensions" Newsletter
Getting more out of Social Security
Emeriti and Retiree Associations
Preserving Your Savings for Future Generations webinar recording
Options for your plan balance when you retire
ADDITIONAL LEARNING
View All Resources
View All Resources
ARTICLE
2025 cost-of-living adjustments announced
September 15, 2025
NEWS
Alert: Be careful about financial advisor solicitations
Don't be confused by solicitations from unauthorized advisors. Remember, UC contracts exclusively with Fidelity for all financial education and guidance services.
ARTICLE
Connect with a UC Retiree Center
As a UC retiree, you’re still a valuable part of the UC community. UC retiree centers help you prepare financially for retirement and stay connected to campus after you make the transition.
ARTICLE
Making sense of RMDs
Are you eligible to receive RMDs? Take some time to understand how RMDs work and the timing of distributions.
ARTICLE
Social Security tips for working retirees
If you work in retirement, know the impact to your Social Security and taxes.
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
ARTICLE
Get to know one of your most valuable UC benefits
How much do you know about your UC primary retirement benefits?
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Recently retired? Consider these next steps
Now that you are retired, it’s more important than ever to plan for what’s ahead.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...