https://www.myucretirement.com/peer-paths/ready-to-retire

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Peer Paths
Ready to Retire
Peer Paths Overview
Newly Eligible
Working & Saving
Ready to Retire
In Retirement
Survivors & Others
Are you nearing retirement? Thank you for your contribution to UC!
“Preparation is the key to success,” Alexander Graham Bell once said. If you’re ready to start preparing for retirement, we’ve got the resources and help you need to ensure a successful transition.
Estimate your retirement income
Use our online tools to see the monthly income you may have from UC sources.
Use the Pension Retirement Estimator
Estimate your UCRP pension benefit using the retirement estimator tool on UC Retirement At Your Service (UCRAYS). The estimator takes your annual pay and service credit into account.
Visit Retirement Estimator tool
See your Retirement Readiness Score
Want to see what your monthly retirement income could be from all your UC retirement benefits? The personalized Retirement Review lets you view your UCRP pension benefits together with your accounts in the UC 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans. You can model changes to your retirement age or contribution rate and see how it may improve your income in retirement.
Access your Retirement Review
Set your strategy for retirement income
Use the planning tools on NetBenefits® to help create a retirement income plan.
Create a retirement income plan
A good plan helps organize your finances, guide your decisions, prepare you for the unexpected. Use the planning tools in NetBenefits to help plan for the retirement you envision.
Learn More About Income Strategies
Review four steps to help make your money last
Ready To Create Your Income Plan?
Access to Planning & Guidance Center
IMPORTANT: The projections or other information generated by the Planning & Guidance Center's Retirement Analysis regarding the likelihood of various investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature, do not reflect actual investment results, and are not guarantees of future results. Your results may vary with each use and over time.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE, SIPC, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
©  2021-2024 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
958968.3.0
Explore Deferred Lifetime Income
Available through the UC Pathway Funds, Deferred Lifetime Income is designed to let you convert a portion of your UC 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan balance into fixed monthly payments beginning at age 78, when you may need it most. You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income for yourself, or for yourself and your spouse.
Learn about Deferred Lifetime Income
Learn more about retirement planning
Plan ahead for this important decision.
Review the planning resources available to you
UC provides resources to help ensure a successful transition into retirement.
Learn More
View the step-by-step guide to retiring from UC
Attend a "Preparing for Retirement" webinar
Visit the Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) site
Learn more about your plan distribution options when you're ready to retire
Get help from a Fidelity Retirement Planner
Get a holistic view of your retirement plan, so that you can make well-informed retirement benefits decisions. Meet one-on-one with a UC-dedicated retirement planner by phone or in person for help with all of life’s money matters. Common questions include: Will your money last as long as you need it to? How should you withdraw money from your accounts to minimize taxes in retirement?
Next Steps
Contact Fidelity at
1-800-558-9182
Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (PT) or schedule a virtual one-on-one.
Schedule a virtual one-on-one
Talk to RASC
Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC) representatives and counselors can answer your UCRP retirement benefits questions and guide you through the UC retirement process when you’ve decided to retire. Call or submit a RASC inquiry via secure messaging through your UC Retirement at Your Service (UCRAYS) account.
Next Steps
Contact a RASC representative by calling
1-800-888-8267
Monday–Friday, 7:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. (PT).
Get help with RASC
Next Steps to Consider
Read the Pathway to Retirement Guidebook
Attend a webinar
Learn about Medicare
Get your Social Security estimate
Ready to retire?
Need help?
ADDITIONAL LEARNING
View All Resources
View All Resources
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
How much money will you need in retirement?
How much money will you really need when you retire? A lot depends on how you live.
ARTICLE
Five things to consider before you retire
Planning to retire soon? Consider these five factors.
ARTICLE
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
ARTICLE
Retiree Health & Welfare Benefits
NEWS
Alert: Be careful about financial advisor solicitations
Don't be confused by solicitations from unauthorized advisors. Remember, UC contracts exclusively with Fidelity for all financial education and guidance services.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
ARTICLE
Will working during retirement affect your benefits?
If you decide to keep earning a paycheck in retirement, here are a few financial rules to keep in mind.
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...