https://myucretirement.com/peer-paths/newly-eligible

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Peer Paths
I am Newly Eligible
Peer Paths Overview
Newly Eligible
Working & Saving
Ready to Retire
In Retirement
Survivors & Others
Recently joined UC? Welcome aboard!
Review the suggested next steps and learning curriculum for newly eligible faculty and staff to start taking advantage of the UC Retirement System benefits.
Enroll in your UC benefits
Make your Retirement Choice and consider enrolling in UC’s 403(b), 457(b), or DC Plans.
Participation in one of the primary retirement benefit options is required, while enrolling in UC’s supplemental benefits is voluntary.
1. MAKE YOUR RETIREMENT CHOICE
Eligible faculty and staff
have 90 days to make a choice — Pension Choice or Savings Choice (Eligible new hires receive program material by email.) The sooner you enroll, the sooner you start receiving UC contributions and/or service credit.
Next Steps
Go to the
Making Your Choice Overview
page where you can:
Compare your options side-by-side.
Model your potential future retirement income for each option.
Register for a
Retirement Choice Program webinar
to attend a live presentation and ask questions.
Ready to Choose?
You have 90 days to make your election — but don’t wait! The sooner you make your election, the sooner you can optimize your benefits.
Make your election
2. ENROLL IN THE UC RETIREMENT SAVINGS PROGRAM
Next, maximize your retirement savings through the UC 403(b) or 457(b) plan. Both allow you to save more on a pre-tax and/or Roth basis. You can also make after-tax contributions to the DC plan.
Next Steps
Learn more about the
403(b)
,
457(b)
, and
DC Plans
Get help deciding between the 403(b) and 457(b) Plans
Ready to Enroll?
You can enroll and manage your Retirement Savings Plan accounts on NetBenefits
®
.
Enroll on NetBenefits
Get invested
Put UC’s investment options to work for you.
INVESTMENT OPTIONS FOR EVERYONE
You have a powerful suite of investment options at your fingertips, including stock, bond, international, and socially responsible investments. And they’re all available for Savings Choice, Pension Choice Defined Contribution (DC) Supplement, UC 403(b), UC 457(b), and DC Plans. Another plus: the buying power of the UC Investments office means that fees are among the lowest available through an employer plan.
Build your portfolio your way. You can create a mix of investments from the menu. If you need a one-stop solution, the
UC Pathway Funds
provide a ready-made mix of stocks, bonds and short-term investments in one fund that automatically risk-adjusts over time as you age. Want to expand your investment horizons?
Fidelity BrokerageLink
®
opens up a world of other mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) for you.
Use them to meet your goals…today and tomorrow.
Next Steps
Review the Retirement Savings Program investment options
Review additional UC-specific investment resources
Ready to Manage Your Investments?
Once you’ve decided whether to do-it-yourself or leave it to the pros, go to NetBenefits
®
.
Update your investments on NetBenefits
Get help from a Fidelity Retirement Planner
Meet one-on-one with a UC-dedicated retirement planner by phone or in person for help with all of life’s money matters, from paying down debt and budgeting, to saving and investing for retirement.
Next Steps
Contact Fidelity at
1-800-558-9182
Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (PT) or schedule a virtual one-on-one.
Schedule a virtual one-on-one
Get your accounts in order
Make sure your accounts are up-to-date.
Now is the time to name your beneficiaries and update your contact information. If you have a retirement account from a previous employer, you may want to consider consolidating your workplace saving plans.
Designate a beneficiary
Once you’ve enrolled in your UC benefits, assign a beneficiary to each of your accounts to ensure your money goes to your loved ones in the event of your death.
Ready to Designate?
On NetBenefits
®
, you can assign beneficiaries to your 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan accounts (including Savings Choice, Pension Choice DC Supplement).
On UCRAYS, you can assign beneficiaries for your UC Retirement Plan benefit (Pension Choice).
Go to NetBenefits
Go to UCRAYS
Consolidate your workplace savings plans
Have a retirement account in a previous employer’s plan? Simplify your finances by rolling it into one of UC's retirement savings plans and take advantage of our low-cost investment options.
Next Steps
Make sure you have an account statement for the retirement accounts that you want to roll over to your UC 403(b), 457(b), or DC Plan account. Read:
What to do with your old 403(b)
Ready to Roll?
Call a UC-dedicated Fidelity Retirement Planner to help you through the process.
Get started
Quick Links
How the Retirement Choice Program works
Introduction to the UC Supplemental Retirement Savings Program
Introduction to the UC Fund Menu
Attend a webinar
Need help?
ADDITIONAL LEARNING
View All Resources
View All Resources
ARTICLE
UC’s Chief Investment Officer talks about investing for retirement
When it comes to retirement, how you invest is as important as how much you save.
ARTICLE
Need help with student debt?
Have student debt? You’ve got this—we can help.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...