https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0056

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Retirement readiness tips and strategies
Thinking of taking a loan from your 403(b)?
Before you take a loan from your UC 403(b) Plan account, consider the implications.
Taking a loan from your UC 403(b) Plan account to deal with an unexpected financial need seems like a simple solution, doesn’t it? But the decision to tap your account isn’t so simple when you consider some of the consequences. Employees often reduce or stop saving in their retirement savings plan after taking out a loan, which can significantly hinder their savings abilities. However, life is unpredictable. Sometimes we have to choose: Take a 403(b) loan or another kind of loan.
If you’re considering a 403(b) loan, here’s what you need to know.
How Loans Work
You can take either a home loan or a general purpose loan. General loans must be repaid within five years, while home loans can be repaid within 15 years. You may have one general loan and one home loan at a time, but you can only request one loan — of each type — within a 12-month period.
What to Know Before You Borrow
If you’ve exhausted all other options and decide to take a 403(b) loan, make sure you understand the implications.
1. Your loan payments come out of your paycheck.
You’ll tie yourself up for automatic payments over the life of your loans. When you have an extra payment coming out of your paycheck, you might not be able to save as much in your 403(b) Plan (or 457(b) Plan) as you usually do — and that can have a significant effect on how much money you end up having in retirement.
2. You lose out on potential investment growth.
When you borrow money, you pay yourself interest. If you took a loan as of June 1, 2024, you would pay yourself 8.5% interest
1
.
Now, as a consumer, a low interest rate is good. But as an investor, you’re giving up potentially much higher returns you could have received if you had kept the money invested.
How much higher? While past performance doesn’t guarantee future returns, it’s interesting to note that, between 1974 and 2023, the average annual return was 11.1% for domestic stocks and 6.6% for bonds.
2
3. You must pay back the outstanding balance in full or pay taxes on the amount you don’t repay.
If you leave UC and do not repay your loan, the amount you do not repay is considered a distribution. That means you will have to pay federal income tax (and California State income tax in most cases) on that amount. If you’re younger than age 59.5, a 10% early withdrawal penalty (2.5% State) may also apply.
A 403(b) Loan Can Potentially Impact Your Retirement Picture
It’s important to consider the effects a plan loan might have on your retirement savings. If you don’t manage it properly, it could affect your retirement picture.
Potential consequences of not managing a plan loan properly
Let’s compare two examples — Palmer and Shui. They’re both 50 years old and have the same income, the same amount saved in their plans, and the same contribution rate to those plans. The difference:  Palmer reduces contributions for seven years, while Shui stops contributions for seven years.
PALMER
SHUI
1 plan loan of $20,000
Reduces contributions
from 14% ($875) to 8% ($500) to offset loan repayment of $375.
Resumes regular contribution rate of 14% two years after repayment.
403(b) account at age 67 with the loan:
$464,000
403(b) account at age 67 without taking the loan:
$531,000
That’s a $67,000 difference!
1 plan loan of $20,000
Stops contributing
altogether by reducing contributions to 0% ($0).
Resumes regular contribution rate of 14% ($875) two years after repayment.
403(b) account at age 67 with the loan:
$379,000
403(b) account at age 67 without taking the loan:
$531,000
That’s a $152,000 difference!
Ending balances are shown in future dollars. Annual pay is $75,000 for the periods shown. The starting account balance is $100,000 with a contribution rate of 14%. Palmer reduces contributions and Shui stops contributions for seven years. Both loans have a five-year repayment period. The hypothetical interest rate on the loan is 4.5%. The hypothetical annual rate of return is 5.25%. These examples are for illustration purposes and do not reflect any actual 403(b) plan loans or investments. No taxes or fees are applied. If they were, amounts would be lower. Earnings and pretax contributions are subject to taxes when withdrawn. Distributions before age 59.5 may also be subject to a 10% penalty. Contribution amounts are subject to IRS and Plan limits. Systematic investing does not ensure a profit or guarantee against a loss in a declining market. Consider your current and anticipated investment horizon when making an investment decision, as the illustration may not reflect this. The assumed rate of return used in this example is not guaranteed. Investments that have potential for 5.25% annual rate of return also come with risk of loss.
Before You Borrow, Look for Alternatives
Weigh the consequences on your future financial security before you tap your UC 403(b) Plan account. If you have access to other means of funding, such as home equity, a family member, or other viable sources, you should consider these options as well.
If you’re looking at a 403(b) Plan loan to help with unmanageable debt payments, call your creditors first. Lenders — including credit card companies — can be very accommodating when you need help making your payments sustainable.
Finally, if you can’t avoid borrowing from your account, here are some helpful tips:
Pay it off on time and in full.
Avoid borrowing more than you need or too many times.
Continue saving for retirement.
It might be tempting to reduce or pause your contributions while you're paying off your loan, but keeping up with your regular contributions is essential to keeping your retirement strategy on track.
1
The 403(b) Plan’s interest rate is the prime rate in effect at the time of loan initiation plus 1%. According to Bankrate.com, as of June 4, 2024, the Wall Street Journal prime rate was 8.5%.
2
Source: Fidelity Investments and Morningstar Inc, 2024. This chart represents the average annual return percentage for the investment categories shown for the 50-year period of 1974–2023. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Returns include the reinvestment of dividends and other earnings. This chart is for illustrative purposes only and does not represent actual or implied performance of any investment option. Stocks are tracked by the IA SBBI US Large Stock Total Return index tracks the monthly return of S&P 500. The history data from 1926 to 1969 is calculated by Ibbotson. DJ US Total Stock Market Total Return index measures the performance of all US equity securities with readily available prices. It represents the top 95% of the US stock market based on market capitalization. The index is float-adjusted market capitalization weighted. Bonds are represented by US Intermediate -Term Government Bond Index from 1/1974 - 12/1975, Bloomberg Aggregate Bond from 1/1976 - 12/2023. The U.S. Intermediate Government Bond Index, which is an unmanaged index that includes the reinvestment of interest income and Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index is a market value–weighted index that covers the U.S. fixed-rate investment-grade bond market with index components for government and corporate securities, mortgage pass-through securities, and asset-backed securities with maturities of one year or more. Short-term instruments are represented by U.S. Treasury bills, which are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. Inflation is represented by, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a widely recognized measure of inflation, calculated by the U.S. government. Stock prices are more volatile than those of other securities. Government bonds and corporate bonds have more moderate short-term price fluctuation than stocks but provide lower potential long-term returns. U.S. Treasury bills maintain a stable value (if held to maturity), but returns are generally only slightly above the inflation rate. You cannot invest directly in an index.
The University of California intends to continue the benefits described here indefinitely; however, the benefits of all employees, retirees, and plan beneficiaries are subject to change or termination at the time of contract renewal or at any other time by the University or other governing authorities. If you belong to an exclusively represented bargaining unit, some of your benefits may differ from the ones described here.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
966202.2.0
Key Takeaways
Explore all your options for getting cash before tapping your 403(b) savings.
If you opt for a 403(b) loan, take steps to keep your retirement savings on track so you don't set yourself back.
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Just 1% more can make a big difference
Increasing your contributions by just 1% now could mean a lot in retirement.
ARTICLE
Five steps to help you stay on target for your retirement goals
Want to know if your financial plans are on target? UC is here to help you find answers.
ARTICLE
Five things to consider before you retire
Planning to retire soon? Consider these five factors.
ARTICLE
Recently retired? Consider these next steps
Now that you are retired, it’s more important than ever to plan for what’s ahead.
VIDEO
Stay the course: How to handle market volatility
Watch Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, and retirement planning professionals from Fidelity discuss recent market volatility and provide tips for retirement savers and other long-term investors.
1:48
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
How much money will you need in retirement?
How much money will you really need when you retire? A lot depends on how you live.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...