https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0087

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UCRP Modified 2013 Tier – New hires in CNA, AFSCME and UPTE
February 3, 2025
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
Membership/Enrollment
If you meet the eligibility requirements, you automatically become a UCRP member and deductions are taken. If you were hired
on or after July 1, 2013
, into a position covered by the CNA, AFSCME, and UPTE bargaining contracts, and meet eligibility requirements, you automatically become a UCRP member in the Modified 2013 tier and deductions are taken.
If you move to a position not covered by these bargaining agreements, or there is a change in those contracts, your UCRP benefits may change going forward and you may become eligible for the
Retirement Choice Program
. For additional details, including eligibility requirements, please see the appropriate
collective bargaining agreement
or the “Special Provisions” listed in the 2013 Tier
Summary Plan Description
.
If you have had a break in service or start to a new appointment and have questions about how that may impact your UCRP retirement benefits, please contact the UC Retirement Administration Service Center at
1-800-888-8267
.
How it works
As a UCRP Modified 2013 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 50 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit or a lump sum cashout.
Components
One component: Pension benefit through the UCRP based on eligible pay.
Shared contributions
Employer and employee contribution rates are set periodically by the UC Regents and your collective bargaining agreement.
Currently, UCRP Modified 2013 Tier members contribute 9% of regular pay. Contributions are made on a pretax    basis.
The total UC contribution rate to UCRP for all members is currently 14.5% of eligible pay.
Employee contributions and the UCRP provisions described here are subject to collective bargaining for represented employees.  Please refer to the appropriate
collective bargaining agreement
, as benefits and other provisions may vary.
Your retirement income
If you are eligible, your UCRP benefit is based on your age, your years of UC service, and your highest average consecutive 36 months of pay.
You become vested in your future UCRP benefit when you have five years or more of UCRP service credit; essentially, five years of membership in UCRP if you work full time. Once you're vested, you can begin taking your UCRP benefits as either monthly payments or a lump sum when you leave UC and are at least age 50. Since your contributions are generally made on a pretax basis, your UCRP benefits are generally taxable.
Monthly payments:
Payments will be made over your lifetime.
You may choose a reduced benefit over your lifetime in order to provide an additional benefit over the lifetime of your survivor or other designated recipient.
UCRP benefits can be no more than 100% of your highest average pay and may be subject to IRS limits.
If you elect monthly income, you and your eligible survivors may also qualify for
retiree health benefits
.
Lump sum payment:
A lump sum payment is available if you are eligible to retire and have never previously received monthly retirement income from UCRP.
Think carefully before you choose a lump sum payment. When you take a lump sum, you give up the right to other UCRP benefits, including monthly survivor income, and will not be eligible for retiree health care coverage.
Other Retirement Benefits
If you become permanently disabled, you may also be eligible for UCRP Disability Income which can include retiree health benefits and additional service credit towards retirement. Please see the 2013 Tier
Summary Plan Description
for more details.
Modified 2013 Tier members can also save additional money through the UC Retirement Savings Program.
Please see
Supplement Retirement Benefits
for more details.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...