https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0033

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Mastering the financial basics
How to prepare for your one-on-one retirement counseling meeting
Being prepared can help you get the most from your first counseling meeting.
You’ve taken the important first step of scheduling an appointment with a UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant. Now, get the most from your initial appointment by being prepared when you walk in the door. Though your first meeting may be more about getting to know your workplace financial consultant and defining your financial goals, it’s important for your workplace financial consultant to be able to understand your current financial situation.
Here are three steps to consider.
1. Gather your information
Here's a list of information that would be beneficial for you to have on-hand for your first meeting:
A copy of your driver’s license (or other form of identification)
Recent statements from any banking and/or investment accounts (i.e., checking, savings, retirement accounts, etc.)
A printed copy of your Retirement Review or your UC Retirement Savings Plan statements and login
Any non-UC pension estimates
Monthly budget, including loan or debt information
Social Security earnings statement, available from
www.ssa.gov
Spouse’s/partner’s information (if it should be included in your planning)
2. Know your questions
In addition to financial information, consider bringing a list of specific questions you’d like answered.
3. Have your login credentials
During your appointment, you may also log into
NetBenefits
®
to review your personal information and use some of the site’s planning tools, so be sure you know your Username and Password.
Doing some of this prep work up front will allow you and your UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant to make the best use of your time together.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
964042.2.0
Take action
UC is offering retirement counseling meetings on campus or by phone, at no extra cost.
Schedule a meeting
when and where it's convenient for you, or call
1-800-558-9182
to meet today.
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
VIDEO
Basics for Managing Your Money
Learn the fundamentals of budgeting your money, managing debt, controlling spending, saving more, and investing for the future.
31:46
Your browser does not support the video tag.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
ARTICLE
Three paycheck moves for young investors
Learn about some ways to make the most of your paycheck.
ARTICLE
Six money myths debunked
Don't be bamboozled. Believing these myths could hurt your bottom line.
ARTICLE
Four ways to help manage your cash in retirement
Learn how to shift from saving for retirement to generating income.
VIDEO
Nurses ask us anything
Hear what's on the minds of Nurses just like you.
2:53
Your browser does not support the video tag.
TOOL
Planning & Guidance Center
Create a holistic financial plan or investment strategy and monitor your progress on NetBenefits®.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...