https://www.myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0059

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Creating a retirement income strategy
Three tax and retirement income planning moves for retirees
Learn how you can make some smart tax and retirement income planning moves.
Financial housekeeping might remind you of Goldilocks — spring seems too early, summer gets too busy, but fall feels just right. Reviewing your finances well before the end of the year allows you to potentially make some smart tax and retirement income planning moves.
Three ideas to help you plan for taxes and protect your assets.
1. Make Smart Tax Moves
Take advantage of tax-saving opportunities to help reduce your taxes.
Make charitable giving part of your tax strategy.
If you itemize, a donation from a taxable account is an effective tax-reduction strategy. This is particularly true if you can contribute appreciated securities held for at least a year. Contributing them to charity not only entitles you to a tax deduction (assuming you qualify), but also allows you to avoid the capital gains tax. For all contributions under $250, remember to get a receipt or have a canceled check.
For noncash contributions over $250, you’ll need a receipt that includes a description of the item and other details. You might also consider a donor-advised fund, which allows you to make a contribution and be eligible for an immediate tax deduction, then recommends grants over time to any IRS-qualified public charity.
Help reduce taxes on investment gains.
If you invest in stocks, bonds, or mutual funds in a non-retirement account, you may be able to reduce taxes on any investment gains for distributions from mutual funds. Tax-loss harvesting might sound complicated, but the principle is fairly simple. Offset your realized taxable gains on your investments (capital gains) with realized losses (capital losses). That means selling stocks, bonds, and mutual funds that have lost value to help reduce taxes on gains from winning investments. However, don’t undermine your long-term investing goals by selling an investment just for tax purposes. Tax-loss harvesting needs to be done by December 31.
2. Plan and Manage Your Income
A quick evaluation of your investments and retirement income plan can help ensure you’re on track to meet future financial needs.
Review your investment and retirement income strategy.
Investment growth plays an important role in a retirement income strategy, and an appropriate investment mix is essential to smart investing. As investments gain or lose value, you should review and adjust your mix of stocks, bonds, and cash to ensure it remains in balance. Life events may also dictate changes. You may find that managing your portfolio is easier if you bring all your accounts under one roof.
Manage withdrawals from taxable, tax-deferred, and tax-exempt accounts.
How you withdraw money from your retirement accounts can affect how long your savings last, as well as your current-year tax bill. In general, if you are age 73 or older, you’re required to take annual Required Minimum Distributions (RMDs) — from your tax-deferred retirement accounts by December 31 each year.
Note: Starting January 1, 2024, the 403(b) and 457(b) Plans will not take into account Roth contributions when calculating annual Required Minimum Distributions.
Consider taking your RMDs first, then withdrawing from taxable accounts, followed by tax-deferred accounts. Tax-exempt accounts — Roth IRAs and Roth 401(k)s — could be last. But a flexible strategy may work, too. For example, depending on your tax situation, you may want to reduce your withdrawal from a tax-deferred account and instead withdraw from your tax-exempt Roth accounts, to avoid being bumped into a higher tax bracket. This strategy can be complex, so be sure to consult with your tax advisor.
TIP:
Get help creating — or fine-tuning — your retirement income plan. Call a UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant at
1-800-558-9182
or schedule a
meeting
.
3. Protect What You Have
Protecting your assets can be as simple as keeping your beneficiaries up to date and staying on top of your credit report.
Check your beneficiaries.
Life comes at you fast. New grandchildren, changes in marital status, and other life events make it necessary to stay on top of the beneficiaries named on your investment accounts. Out-of-date beneficiaries could cause your assets to be distributed in ways that you didn’t intend. While doing your annual financial review, take a few minutes to perform this important task.
Create or review your estate plan.
Estate planning isn’t just for the old or very rich. No matter what your age or financial status, there are important things you can do. A basic plan includes a will, as well as instructions for what happens if you become incapacitated. Naming a health care proxy, establishing a “living will” regarding end-of-life medical care, and naming a power of attorney can help your loved ones understand your wishes. Talk to your family about your wishes, too.
Take advantage of gifting to family members.
You can gift up to $18,000 a year to as many people as you like, tax-free, in 2025. Taking full advantage of the gift tax exclusion can be a tax-efficient way to begin the distribution of cash and investments that are part of your estate, and that would potentially be subject to inheritance taxes.
Stay on top of Medicare eligibility.
If you’re turning age 65 this year and you’re not working, and you haven’t begun collecting Social Security, make sure you don’t miss your Medicare sign-up window. If you do, you could end up paying higher premiums permanently. You can sign up for Medicare beginning three months before you turn 65, and the initial enrollment period lasts until three months after your birthday. Monthly Part B premiums increase by 10% for every 12-month period you were eligible but didn’t sign up.
Review your credit report.
When it comes to your credit, what you don’t know can definitely hurt you. Checking your report for suspicious activity that could be an indicator of identity theft is critical. Federal law requires each of the nationwide credit reporting companies — Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion — to provide you with a free copy of your credit report, at your request, once every 12 months.
TIP:
Get a free report from the three credit reporting companies at
Annual Credit Report.
Fidelity does not provide legal or tax advice. The information herein is general and educational in nature and should not be considered legal or tax advice. Tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to change, which can materially impact investment results. Fidelity cannot guarantee that the information herein is accurate, complete, or timely. Fidelity makes no warranties with regard to such information or results obtained by its use, and disclaims any liability arising out of your use of, or any tax position taken in reliance on, such information. Consult an attorney or tax professional regarding your specific situation.
The University of California intends to continue the benefits described here indefinitely; however, the benefits of all employees, retirees, and plan beneficiaries are subject to change or termination at the time of contract renewal or at any other time by the University or other governing authorities. If you belong to an exclusively represented bargaining unit, some of your benefits may differ from the ones described here.
Equifax, Experian, TransUnion and Fidelity Investments are independent entities and are not legally affiliated.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2021-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
809830.7.0
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Four steps to help make your money last
Take steps to maintain a steady income throughout your retirement.
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
Options for taking your first required minimum distribution (RMD)
Important deadline options and tax implications to consider before withdrawing your first RMD.
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income
Hear why UC offers this important benefit and why it can be a good time to buy Deferred Lifetime Income.
4:52
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PLAN MATERIAL
Deferred Lifetime Income Decision Guide
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income - Step-by-Step Purchase Process
Get a step-by-step overview of the process for making a Deferred Lifetime Income purchase.
6:06
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
VIDEO
Your Retirement Transition: Go from Saving to Spending
A discussion with facts and potential next steps for building a retirement income plan with the goal of preserving your savings and growing your money in retirement.
44:16
Your browser does not support the video tag.
NEWS
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
A new automatic withdrawals tool gives you more flexibility than ever.
ARTICLE
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
ARTICLE
How to maximize your retirement income
After working hard to build your retirement savings, don't let taxes take a big bite out of them.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Resources to help you prepare for retirement
If you’re ready to retire, here are resources to help ensure a successful transition.
ARTICLE
Social Security tips for working retirees
If you work in retirement, know the impact to your Social Security and taxes.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
VIDEO
Social Security: Time to talk | Q&A
Watch this video to learn answers to common questions about Social Security.
5:37
Your browser does not support the video tag.
TOOL
Deferred Lifetime Income
Interactive estimator to help decide how much Deferred Lifetime Income to purchase.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...