https://www.myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0084

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Fund News
July 1, 2024
The UC Retirement Savings Program’s investment menu is designed to make it easier for you to build a diversified, lower-cost investment mix that matches your personal tolerance for risk.
On July 1, 2024, two new investment options were added to the UC RSP lineup:
•   The UC Short Duration Bond Fund
•   The UC Blue and Gold Fund
Below are resources on these new funds:
∼
Jagdeep Singh Bachher, Chief Investment Officer for the University of California, talks about the new investment options
∼
New Funds Overview
∼
Quick Facts: Bond maturities and why they matter
∼
The UC Short Duration Bond Fund investment description
∼
The UC Blue and Gold Fund investment description
You can also register
for the Guide to Investing in the UC RSP webinar to learn about investing basics and full suite of investment options available in the 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans.
UC Investment Fund News
November 14, 2023: Share Class Change for UC Growth Company Fund
When the market closed on November 14, 2023, the share class of the UC Growth Company Fund investment option changed. The new share class offers you the same investment strategy and risk, but the overall expenses will be lower -0.32% gross expense ratio* for the new share class vs. 0.35% gross expense ratio* for the prior one.
UC understands that the fees and expenses of the investments you select have an impact on the overall returns of your portfolio. Therefore, we are pleased to offer the new share class, which has a lower expense ratio than the prior share class.
June 30, 2022: Core Fund Menu Change
As of June 30, 2022, the core fund menu will no longer hold investments in companies that own fossil fuel reserves.* More information on this change is available
here
.
UC Fund Menu
The menu includes a full range of asset classes designed to help meet your needs, no matter what type of investor you might be. The
investment menu
is selected and monitored by the UC Office of the Chief Investment Officer of the Regents.
* Excludes two funds managed by Fidelity: UC Growth Company Fund and UC Diversified International Fund. In addition, the UC RSP offers a self-directed brokerage option called Fidelity BrokerageLink®. This option gives you access to thousands of mutual funds available through Fidelity FundsNetwork®, as well as exchange-traded funds (ETFs) – many of which include fossil fuel companies. You can learn more about Fidelity BrokerageLink® here.
**Due to regulatory requirements, UC can only offer Certificate of Deposits in the 457(b) and DC Plan.
Investing involves risk, including risk of loss.
BrokerageLink® includes investments beyond those in your plan's lineup. You should compare investments and share classes that are available in your plan's lineup with those available through BrokerageLink®, and determine the available investment and share class that is appropriate for your situation. The plan fiduciary neither evaluates nor monitors the investments available through BrokerageLink®. It is your responsibility to ensure that the investments you select are suitable for your situation, including your goals, time horizon, and risk tolerance.
Before investing in any investment option, please carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. This and other information on the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu is available, free of charge, online at
www.netbenefits.com
or by calling Fidelity® Retirement Services at 1-866-6UC-RSVP (1-866-682-7787). This and other information on mutual fund options that are part of the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu and other mutual funds or exchange-traded funds outside the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu can be found in the prospectus, offering circular, or, if available, a summary prospectus, which can be obtained, free of charge, at the same website and toll-free phone number. Read the information carefully before you invest.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2020- 2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
923082.7.0
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...