https://www.myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0076

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
DC Plan
What it is
The DC Plan offers an After-tax Account that lets you add to your retirement savings with after-tax contributions. Taxes on any investment earnings related to your after-tax contributions are deferred until you withdraw the money.
You can access your contributions at any time without penalty (earnings are subject to taxes and possible early withdrawal penalties if not rolled over).
Learn more about the many benefits of the DC Plan After-tax Account
, including the option to convert funds to a Roth IRA through a rollover.
Note that part-time, seasonal, temporary employees and non-exempt student employees who are not eligible for primary retirement benefits participate in the DC Plan as Safe Harbor participants, automatically contributing 7.5% of eligible pay on a pretax basis in lieu of paying Social Security. More information on
retirement benefits for Safe Harbor participants
is available on UCnet.
In addition, if you were a Career employee prior to 2010, you previously made mandatory pretax contributions to the DC Plan.
Eligibility and contributions
Almost all UC employees can make supplemental after-tax contributions to this plan. This plan also accepts
eligible rollovers
from previous employer retirement plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs).
You may contribute up to $70,000 to this plan in 2025. This limit applies to all annual additions (pretax and after-tax) to the DC Plan, including UC contributions and mandatory employee contributions.
Your total combined annual contributions cannot equal more than 100% of your annual compensation.
Benefit
Your account balance depends on your own contributions, plus investment performance over time. When you retire, you can draw retirement income as needed from your account.
Investments
You select investments for your account, choosing from a menu of available investment options. If you don't choose investments, your contributions are automatically invested in a
UC Pathway Fund
near the year you reach age 65.  The UC Pathway Funds are subject to the same kinds of risks you’d face if you chose a diversified portfolio on your own.
The 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans offer the same
investment menu
. UC provides tools, resources, and one-on-one guidance to help you understand how to plan and invest for retirement.
Loans and withdrawals
No loans are available from this plan.
You can withdraw your after-tax contributions without penalty for any reason at any time. Note that because earnings attributable to your after-tax contributions are tax-deferred, they will be subject to taxes and potential early withdrawal penalties when withdrawn (before age 59.5, or after you leave UC employment at age 55 or older).
All distributions are subject to plan rules.
Wondering which supplemental plan to start with?
The supplemental UC Retirement Savings Program — the 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans — provide three options to help you build additional retirement savings to augment your primary UC retirement benefits, Social Security, and other non-UC retirement income.
Learn more about the differences
.
Enroll in the 403(b), 457(b), or After-tax DC Plan now
, or use
Easy Enroll to quickly enroll in the 403(b)
. For help, call Fidelity at 866-682-7787.
The investment risks of each target date Pathway Fund change over time as each fund's asset allocation changes. Assets held in the Pathway Funds are subject to the volatility of the financial markets, including equity and fixed income investments in the U.S. and abroad, and may be subject to risks associated with investing in high yield, small cap and foreign securities. Principal invested is not guaranteed at any time, including at or after their target dates.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2021–2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
765487.11.0
Learn more
UCRSP Fund Menu
Summary Plan Descriptions
Roth Brochure
Required Minimum Distributions (RMD) Fact Sheet
Supplemental Retirement Benefits Notice
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...