https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0038

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Investing in the UC Plans
Introduction to the UC Fund Menu
How much do you know about the investments that are available in the UC 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans?
If you’re ready to think seriously about investing, it’s time to learn about the investments available through the UC Retirement Savings Program (UCRSP) — the 403(b), 457(b), and Defined Contribution (DC) Plans.
Here's what you need to know.
UC Fund Menu
To help make your investment decisions easier, the UC Retirement Savings Program offers the UCRSP Fund Menu. The investment menu includes a full range of asset classes designed to help meet your needs, no matter what type of investor you might be. Regardless of your investment preferences, a key strategy for managing risk is having a well-diversified portfolio. The UCRSP Fund Menu is selected and monitored by the UC Office of the Chief Investment Officer of the Regents.
As of June 30, 2022, the core fund menu no longer holds investments in companies that own fossil fuel reserves.
1
Tier 1 - Target Date Funds
UC Pathways Funds
UC Pathway Income Fund
UC Pathway Fund 2025
UC Pathway Fund 2030
UC Pathway Fund 2035
UC Pathway Fund 2040
UC Pathway Fund 2045
UC Pathway Fund 2050
UC Pathway Fund 2055
UC Pathway Fund 2060
UC Pathway Fund 2065
UC Pathway Fund 2070
Tier II - Main Fund Menu
Bond and Stock Investments
2
Bond
Short-Term
UC Savings Fund
UC Short Duration Bond Fund
Intermediate-Term
UC Bond Fund
Inflation-Protected
UC Short Term TIPS Fund
UC TIPS Fund
Domestic Stock
Broad Cap
UC Domestic Equity Index Fund
Large Cap
UC Growth Company Fund
Small Cap
UC Domestic Small Cap Equity Fund
Foreign Stock
Developed Markets
UC International Equity Index Fund
UC Diversified International Fund
Emerging Markets
UC Emerging Markets Equity Fund
Specialty Stock
UC Blue and Gold Fund
UC Global Equity Index Fund
UC Real Estate Fund
UC Social Equity Fund
Tier III - Fidelity BrokerageLink®
Tier I – Target Date Funds
UC Pathway Funds
The UC Pathway Funds are designed to be the only investment option you need
in your retirement plan account. Each UC Pathway Fund invests in eight underlying funds for maximum diversification. The funds adjust risk over time to help ensure participants investing in the funds are allocated to an appropriate level of volatility throughout the funds' target date. You simply choose the one fund closest to the year you expect to retire — or the year you plan to start drawing money from your plan account. The chart below lists the assigned fund the University of California Retirement Savings Program believes will best fit your diversification needs should you not select an investment option.
Your Birth Date*
Fund Name
Target Retirement Years
Before 1960
UC Pathway Income Fund
Retired before 2025
Jan. 1, 1960–Dec. 31, 1964
UC Pathway Fund 2025
Target Years 2025–2029
Jan. 1, 1965–Dec. 31, 1969
UC Pathway Fund 2030
Target Years 2030–2034
Jan. 1, 1970–Dec. 31, 1974
UC Pathway Fund 2035
Target Years 2035–2039
Jan. 1, 1975–Dec. 31, 1979
UC Pathway Fund 2040
Target Years 2040–2044
Jan. 1, 1980–Dec. 31, 1984
UC Pathway Fund 2045
Target Years 2045–2049
Jan. 1, 1985–Dec. 31, 1989
UC Pathway Fund 2050
Target Years 2050–2054
Jan. 1, 1990–Dec. 31, 1994
UC Pathway Fund 2055
Target Years 2055–2059
Jan. 1, 1995–Dec. 31, 1999
UC Pathway Fund 2060
Target Years 2060–2064
Jan. 1, 2000-Dec 31, 2004
UC Pathway Fund 2065
Target Years 2065-2069
Jan. 1, 2005, and later
UC Pathway Fund 2070
Target Years 2070 and beyond
*Dates selected by Plan Sponsor.
Tier II – Main Fund Menu
Comfortable building a diversified portfolio on your own? The UCRSP Fund Menu lets you create a custom mix of fixed income funds and equity funds. Here is an overview of the available options.
2
Bond Investments
Short-term: UC Savings Fund.
Short-term funds are designed to preserve capital. Short-term funds are a fixed-income investment, which are considered more conservative. They also tend to provide a lower potential return.
Short-term: UC Short Duration Bond Fund
. Invests in high-quality U.S. government and corporate bonds with maturities of one to five years.
Intermediate-term: UC Bond Fund.
Intermediate-term bond funds seek to maximize long-term investment returns by investing in intermediate-term debt securities.
Inflation-protected: UC Short Term TIPS Fund and UC TIPS Fund.
The UC Short Term TIPS Fund seeks to provide returns more closely correlated with realized inflation over the near term and to offer investors the potential for less volatility of returns relative to a longer duration TIPS fund. The UC TIPS Fund seeks to provide long-term return and inflation protection consistent with an investment in U.S. government inflation-indexed securities or TIPS (Treasury Inflation Protected Securities).
Stock Investments
Domestic Stock
Broad Cap: UC Domestic Equity Index Fund.
Index funds try to track the performance of a specific market index by investing in the same securities, in the same weightings, as the index.
Large Cap: UC Growth Company Fund.
Large-cap funds generally invest in the stocks of companies with a market capitalization of at least $5 billion in market value.
Small Cap: UC Domestic Small Cap Equity Fund.
Small-cap funds typically invest in businesses with a market value of $300 million to $2 billion. These are usually young companies that serve niche markets or emerging industries.
Foreign Stock
Developed Markets: UC International Equity Index Fund and UC Diversified International Fund.
International stock funds primarily invest in stocks issued by companies outside the United States, while global stock funds primarily invest in stocks issued by companies around the world, including the United States.
Emerging Markets: UC Emerging Markets Equity Fund Portfolio.
Emerging markets stock funds invest primarily in stocks issued by companies based in countries with less developed economies.
Specialty Stock
UC Blue and Gold Fund.
Invests in global stocks and short-term U.S. bonds and will maintain a stable allocation of 80% stocks and 20% bonds.
UC Global Equity Index Fund.
The UC Global Equity Index Fund invests in domestic and international companies that do not own fossil fuel reserves or sell tobacco products.
UC Real Estate Fund.
Real estate funds offer investors wide exposure in the real estate sector by investing primarily in the securities of companies that own and manage real estate.
UC Social Equity Fund.
The UC Social Equity Fund invests in large- and mid- capitalization U.S. stocks that have been screened for certain environmental, social and governance criteria.
Tier III – BrokerageLink®
Fidelity BrokerageLink® combines the convenience of your workplace retirement plan with the additional flexibility of a brokerage account. It gives you expanded investment choices to manage your retirement contributions. The plan fiduciary neither evaluates nor monitors the investments available through BrokerageLink. It is your responsibility to ensure that the investments you select are suitable for your situation, including your goals, time horizon, and risk tolerance. See the fact sheet and commission schedule for applicable fees and risk.
For more information visit
www.netbenefits.com
or call
1-866-682-7787.
Take Action
Use NetBenefits to
change your investments
or
rebalance your investment mix
at virtually any time.
For help requesting changes to your investments, call
1-866-682-7787.
Before investing in any investment option, please carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. This and other information on the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu is available, free of charge, online at
www.netbenefits.com
or by calling Fidelity® Retirement Services at 1-866-6UC-RSVP (1-866-682-7787). This and other information on mutual fund options that are part of the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu and other mutual funds or exchange-traded funds outside the UC Retirement Savings Program Fund Menu can be found in the prospectus, offering circular, or, if available, a summary prospectus, which can be obtained, free of charge, at the same website and toll-free phone number. Read the information carefully before you invest.
Keep in mind that investing involves risk. The value of your investment will fluctuate over time, and you may gain or lose money.
The investment risks of each target date Pathway Fund change over time as each fund’s asset allocation changes. Assets held in the Pathway Funds are subject to the volatility of the financial markets, including equity and fixed income investments in the U.S. and abroad, and may be subject to risks associated with investing in high yield, small cap and foreign securities. Principal invested is not guaranteed at any time, including at or after their target dates.
1
Investment category names and descriptions provided by Plan Sponsor.
2
Excludes two funds managed by Fidelity: UC Growth Company Fund and UC Diversified International Fund. In addition, the UC RSP offers a brokerage option called, Fidelity BrokerageLink®. This option gives you access to thousands of mutual funds available through Fidelity FundsNetwork®, as well as exchange-traded funds (ETFs) – many of which include fossil fuel companies. You can learn more about Fidelity BrokerageLink® here.
Exchange-traded products (ETPs) are subject to market volatility and the risks of their underlying securities, which may include the risks associated with investing in smaller companies, foreign securities, commodities, and fixed income investments. Foreign securities are subject to interest rate, currency exchange rate, economic, and political risks, all of which are magnified in emerging markets. ETPs that target a small universe of securities, such as a specific region or market sector, are generally subject to greater market volatility, as well as to the specific risks associated with that sector, region, or other focus. ETPs that use derivatives, leverage, or complex investment strategies are subject to additional risks. The return of an index ETP is usually different from that of the index it tracks because of fees, expenses, and tracking error. An ETP may trade at a premium or discount to its net asset value (NAV) (or indicative value in the case of exchange-traded notes). The degree of liquidity can vary significantly from one ETP to another and losses may be magnified if no liquid market exists for the ETP's shares when attempting to sell them. Each ETP has a unique risk profile, detailed in its prospectus, offering circular, or similar material, which should be considered carefully when making investment decisions.
BrokerageLink includes investments beyond those in your plan's lineup. You should compare investments and share classes that are available in your plan's lineup with those available through BrokerageLink, and determine the available investment and share class that is appropriate for your situation. The plan fiduciary neither evaluates nor monitors the investments available through BrokerageLink. It is your responsibility to ensure that the investments you select are suitable for your situation, including your goals, time horizon, and risk tolerance.
Investors considering investments in bond funds should know that, generally speaking, the bond market is volatile, and fixed income securities carry interest rate risk. (As interest rates rise, bond prices usually fall, and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities.) Fixed income securities also carry inflation risk and credit and default risks for both issuers and counterparties. Unlike individual bonds, most bond funds do not have a maturity date, so holding them until maturity to avoid losses caused by price volatility is not possible.
Stock markets are volatile and can fluctuate significantly in response to company, industry, political, regulatory, market, or economic developments. Investing in stock involves risks, including the loss of principal.
The securities of smaller, less well-known companies can be more volatile than those of larger companies.
Foreign markets can be more volatile than U.S. markets due to increased risks of adverse issuer, political, market or economic developments, all of which are magnified by emerging markets. These risks are particularly significant for investments that focus on a single country or region.
Because of their narrow focus, sector investments tend to be more volatile than investments that diversify across many sectors and companies.
Changes in real estate values or economic conditions can have a positive or negative effect on issuers in the real estate industry.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2020-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
1154528.2.0
Performance and Disclosures
View the
UC Fund Menu Disclosures
.
For recent fund performance, net asset values (NAV), and fee information, go to
NetBenefits
(requires login).
Growth Company Fund Share Class Change
Learn More
UC Fund Fact Sheets (all)
Introduction to the UC Pathway Funds
UC Fund Menu Net Asset Values
UC Fund Menu Investment Risk Factors
UC OCIO Sustainable Investment Framework
UC’s Chief Investment Officer Talks about Investing for Retirement
Take a class on investing
Talk to a UC-dedicated Retirement Planner
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
UC’s Chief Investment Officer talks about investing for retirement
When it comes to retirement, how you invest is as important as how much you save.
FACT SHEET
Fund Fact Sheet: All Funds
VIDEO
The Benefits of Saving and Investing in Retirement
Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, explains the concepts of asset allocation and diversification, and illustrates the potential benefits of long-term investing.
7:18
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Introduction to the UC Pathway Funds
The UC Pathway Funds let you choose one fund based on the date you think you will retire, or the year you plan to start taking money from your account.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
FACT SHEET
UC Pathway Funds Brochure
PLAN MATERIAL
UC Fund Menu Net Asset Values
PLAN MATERIAL
UC Fund Menu Investment Risk Factors
ARTICLE
Introduction to Fidelity BrokerageLink
®
What to know about Fidelity BrokerageLink®.
FACT SHEET
BrokerageLink Fact Sheet: UC 403(b)
FACT SHEET
BrokerageLink Fact Sheet: UC 457(b) and UC DC Plan
FACT SHEET
Fossil Fuel Change FAQs
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...