https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0057

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Creating a retirement income strategy
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
We all know that there is no one-size-fits-all retirement. You may want to travel the world. Your neighbor may want to garden and read. Likewise, there is no one-size-fits-all retirement plan. Finding the right mix for you depends on a myriad of factors, including your savings, expenses, health, family, and values. The good news: Whatever your situation, you can help improve your retirement readiness.
Improve your retirement readiness by learning about three essential building blocks for retirement income plans.
In general, a solid retirement income plan should provide three things:
Guaranteed income to help ensure your core expenses are covered.
Growth potential to help meet long-term needs and legacy goals.
Flexibility to adjust as your needs change, or life throws a curveball.
1. Use Guaranteed Income to Help Pay for Your Essential Expenses
When you create your plan, first and foremost, you'll want to make sure your day-to-day expenses — nonnegotiable costs, such as housing, food, utilities, taxes, and health care — are covered by lifetime guaranteed income sources. There are essentially three sources of guaranteed income.
Social Security:
This is a foundational source of income for most people. When you decide to take it may have a big impact on your retirement. It can be tempting to claim your benefit as soon as you're eligible for Social Security — typically at age 62. But that can be a costly move. If you start taking
Social Security
at 62 rather than waiting until your
full retirement age
, you will receive reduced monthly benefits. (Full retirement age ranges from 66 to 67, depending on the year in which you were born.) Find out your full retirement age, and work with your financial advisor to explore how the timing of your Social Security benefit fits into your overall plan.
UCRP Pension:
One of the most valuable benefits UC offers is UC’s pension plan — the
UC Retirement Plan, or UCRP
. If you were hired before July 1, 2016, you are automatically a member of UCRP. Those hired after July 1, 2016, can choose to participate in either the pension plan or a 401(k)-style savings plan.
UCRP is a monthly pension benefit that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income. When you retire, you will receive monthly retirement income for as long as you live. Your benefit is based on your pay, the date you were hired, and the number of years you have worked for UC.
Deferred Lifetime Income:
UC offers
Deferred Lifetime Income
2
, an optional deferred income annuity that lets you use a portion of your UC 403(b), 457(b), DC Plan balance invested in the UC Pathway Funds to purchase a Deferred Lifetime Income annuity. This annuity is designed to help you convert a portion of your savings into fixed monthly payments beginning at age 78, when you may need it most. Deferred Lifetime Income is designed to supplement other sources of retirement income, like Social Security and the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP), to help cover your spending needs.
TIP:
Learn more about Deferred Lifetime Income with
UC’s online tutorial
.
Components of a diversified retirement income strategy
UCRP pension and/or
Social security
Deferred Lifetime Income annuity
through the UC Pathway Funds
Investment Portfolio
For illustrative purposes only.
2. Seek Growth Potential to Meet Your Long-Term Needs
As you build your income plan, it’s important to include some investments with growth potential that may help keep up with inflation through the years.
You'll want to consider how you can pay for those fun things you've always dreamed about doing when you finally have the time — things like vacations, hobbies, and other nice-to-haves. It’s a smart strategy to pay for these kinds of expenses from your investments. That’s because if the market were to perform poorly, you could always cut back on some of these expenses.
It’s important to consider a mix of stocks, bonds, and cash that considers your time horizon, financial situation, and tolerance for market shifts. An overly conservative strategy can result in missing out on the long-term growth potential of stocks, while an overly aggressive strategy can mean taking on undue risk during volatile markets.
Creating and managing your investments in retirement requires some effort along with the discipline to stay on plan even during volatile markets. You need to carefully research investment options and choose ones that match your goals. You also need to monitor your investments, and rebalance the mix of stocks, bonds, and cash when needed. It’s important to manage taxes on your investments too.
TIP
: At UC, you can
review your investment decisions one-on-one with a UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant
. This is a service of the UC Retirement Savings Program, so it’s available to you at no additional cost.
3. Be Flexible and Refine Your Income Plan Over Time
You want to have a plan that can adapt to life’s inevitable curveballs. Five years into your retirement, you might receive an inheritance, have your parents move in, or experience another significant life event. When these things happen, you need a plan that gives you the ability to make adjustments along the way.
That’s why it's important to combine income from multiple sources to create a diversified income stream in retirement. Complementary income sources can work together to help reduce the effects of some important key risks, such as inflation, longevity, and market volatility.
For example, taking withdrawals from your investment portfolio gives you the flexibility to change the amount you withdraw each month, but does not guarantee income for life. On the other hand, income annuities provide guaranteed income
1
for life, but may not offer as much flexibility or income growth potential.
TIP:
Flexibility may also be important when you begin to take required minimum distributions, or RMDs, once you reach age 73. If you're planning to spend your RMDs to cover your ongoing retirement expenses, you may want to work with an advisor to determine tax-efficient ways to take those withdrawals, year after year.
A note on principal preservation:
As part of your overall financial plan, you may also wish to preserve some principal for use in an emergency or to leave a legacy for heirs. You can accomplish this separately from, or in conjunction with, a diversified income plan.
But remember, investments that aim to preserve your principal, such as money market funds
3
, CDs, or Treasury bonds, come with a different sort of risk. These investments generally offer relatively low yields — and your principal might not be large enough to generate enough income from interest or dividends to fund your desired retirement lifestyle. Plus, if you invest too conservatively, your savings may not grow enough to keep pace with inflation.
Understanding the Tradeoffs as You Build Your Income Strategy
Everyone’s situation is unique, so there’s no one income strategy that will work for all investors. You'll need to determine the relative importance of growth potential, guarantees, or flexibility to help you pinpoint the strategy that is right for you in retirement. Of course, there are tradeoffs. For instance, more growth potential can mean settling for less guaranteed income. With more guarantees, you get less growth potential and less flexibility. If you have an employer stock plan then there are the risks of concentrated positions to compare against the benefits of potential long-term incentives. Consider, too, your family’s history regarding longevity and whether you plan to leave a legacy to your heirs.
Five Steps to Consider
So, how do you get started? Here are five steps to consider taking to help create a diversified income plan:
Identify your personal and financial goals. Use UC’s
Retirement Review
to understand how much income you are on track to receive from your UC benefits.
Use the planning tools in
NetBenefits
®
to create a retirement plan that can help you determine whether you will have enough money to last throughout retirement. From anywhere in
NetBenefits
, just click the Planning link (login required).
Determine when to take Social Security; how much of your investment portfolio you want to allocate to an emergency fund, income protection, and growth potential; and who will manage your investment portfolio.
Implement your plan with an appropriate mix of income-producing investments to balance your financial needs, goals, risk tolerance and investment priorities in retirement.
Work with a
UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant
to develop your plan. Review it regularly with your consultant to make sure it is on track to help meet your lifestyle and income needs.
1
Annuity guarantees are subject to the claims-paying ability of the issuing insurance company.
2
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (“QLAC”), which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions and limitations and the issuing insurance company’s financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
3
You could lose money by investing in a money market fund. An investment in a money market fund is not a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Before investing, always read a money market fund’s prospectus for policies specific to that fund.
Fidelity does not provide legal or tax advice. The information herein is general in nature and should not be considered legal or tax advice. Consult an attorney or tax professional regarding your specific situation.
Estate taxes may apply to insurance proceeds. Consult a financial or tax advisor about your specific financial situation.
Investing involves risk, including risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2022-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
1018561.3.0
Three things to remember
1. A retirement income plan should include guaranteed income, growth potential, and flexibility.
2. Prepare for life’s eventual curveballs with a retirement plan that combines income from multiple sources.
3. Consider working with a
UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant
on your retirement income plan
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Four steps to help make your money last
Take steps to maintain a steady income throughout your retirement.
ARTICLE
Options for taking your first required minimum distribution (RMD)
Important deadline options and tax implications to consider before withdrawing your first RMD.
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income
Hear why UC offers this important benefit and why it can be a good time to buy Deferred Lifetime Income.
4:52
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PLAN MATERIAL
Deferred Lifetime Income Decision Guide
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income - Step-by-Step Purchase Process
Get a step-by-step overview of the process for making a Deferred Lifetime Income purchase.
6:06
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
VIDEO
Your Retirement Transition: Go from Saving to Spending
A discussion with facts and potential next steps for building a retirement income plan with the goal of preserving your savings and growing your money in retirement.
44:16
Your browser does not support the video tag.
NEWS
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
A new automatic withdrawals tool gives you more flexibility than ever.
ARTICLE
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
ARTICLE
How to maximize your retirement income
After working hard to build your retirement savings, don't let taxes take a big bite out of them.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Three tax and retirement income planning moves for retirees
Learn how you can make some smart tax and retirement income planning moves.
ARTICLE
Resources to help you prepare for retirement
If you’re ready to retire, here are resources to help ensure a successful transition.
ARTICLE
Social Security tips for working retirees
If you work in retirement, know the impact to your Social Security and taxes.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
VIDEO
Social Security: Time to talk | Q&A
Watch this video to learn answers to common questions about Social Security.
5:37
Your browser does not support the video tag.
TOOL
Deferred Lifetime Income
Interactive estimator to help decide how much Deferred Lifetime Income to purchase.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...