https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0061

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Investing in the UC Plans
UC’s Chief Investment Officer talks about investing for retirement
When it comes to retirement, how you invest is as important as how much you save.
When it comes to retirement, how much you save and when you start saving have a direct effect on the amount you’ll have at retirement. But saving is only one part of the equation. Equally important is how you invest your retirement savings.
That’s the subject of a special video featuring Jagdeep Singh Bachher, Chief Investment Officer for the University of California. Mr. Bachher’s team oversees about $120 billion in assets — more than three-quarters of that is for the UC Retirement System.
In the video Mr. Bachher explains the concepts of asset allocation and diversification, and illustrates the potential benefits of long-term investing. And whether your investor style is to do it yourself or to delegate, the video summarizes fund options to consider.
Watch Video
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
1000380.1.0
Watch our video
Watch Jagdeep Singh Bachher, Chief Investment Officer of the Regents, and retirement planning professionals from Fidelity Investments discuss recent market volatility and provide tips for retirement savers and other long-term investors.
Watch Video
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Introduction to the UC Fund Menu
How much do you know about the investments that are available in the UC 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans?
FACT SHEET
Fund Fact Sheet: All Funds
VIDEO
The Benefits of Saving and Investing in Retirement
Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, explains the concepts of asset allocation and diversification, and illustrates the potential benefits of long-term investing.
7:18
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Introduction to the UC Pathway Funds
The UC Pathway Funds let you choose one fund based on the date you think you will retire, or the year you plan to start taking money from your account.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
FACT SHEET
UC Pathway Funds Brochure
PLAN MATERIAL
UC Fund Menu Net Asset Values
PLAN MATERIAL
UC Fund Menu Investment Risk Factors
ARTICLE
Introduction to Fidelity BrokerageLink
®
What to know about Fidelity BrokerageLink®.
FACT SHEET
BrokerageLink Fact Sheet: UC 403(b)
FACT SHEET
BrokerageLink Fact Sheet: UC 457(b) and UC DC Plan
FACT SHEET
Fossil Fuel Change FAQs
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...