https://myucretirement.com/resources/managing-lifes-money-matters

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Resources
Managing Life's Money Matters
Resources Overview
Planning for Retirement
Investing for the Future
Managing Life's Money Matters
Life is sure to throw you curveballs, which is why knowing how to manage your money through all seasons of life is important. See how UC can help you navigate life and money, from protecting your savings to paying down debt and estate planning.
Mastering the financial basics
Protecting your savings
Women & Investing
Filter by Media Type
View all media
Articles
Forms & Publications
Videos
Tools
News
Webinars
​
View upcoming live and on-demand webinar offerings
Retirement Tools
Retirement Review
​
Retirement Choice Modeler
​
Deferred Lifetime Income
​
Mastering the financial basics
VIDEO
Basics for Managing Your Money
Learn the fundamentals of budgeting your money, managing debt, controlling spending, saving more, and investing for the future.
31:46
Your browser does not support the video tag.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
ARTICLE
Three paycheck moves for young investors
Learn about some ways to make the most of your paycheck.
ARTICLE
Six money myths debunked
Don't be bamboozled. Believing these myths could hurt your bottom line.
ARTICLE
How to prepare for your one-on-one retirement counseling meeting
Being prepared can help you get the most from your first counseling meeting.
ARTICLE
Four ways to help manage your cash in retirement
Learn how to shift from saving for retirement to generating income.
Load more
Protecting your savings
NEWS
Alert: Be careful about financial advisor solicitations
Don't be confused by solicitations from unauthorized advisors. Remember, UC contracts exclusively with Fidelity for all financial education and guidance services.
ARTICLE
How to update your beneficiary
Make sure your loved ones have the security you worked so hard to build.
ARTICLE
Six tips to be more secure online
As cyber fraud continues to evolve, it is more critical than ever to take measures to protect your identity and mitigate potential security risks.
ARTICLE
Five things you can do to help secure your UC Retirement Savings Program accounts
Cybercrime is a booming industry and hackers are hoping you’re not on the alert. But you can take simple steps to make their work more difficult.
ARTICLE
Will inflation deflate your retirement savings?
Concerns about rising inflation are everywhere. If you're already retired and living off your investment income, you may be especially worried, regardless of the size of your savings.
ARTICLE
Four ways to protect key documents from a natural disaster
Be prepared for the next emergency. Here are four easy ways to safeguard your important files.
Women & Investing
TOOL
Women Talk Money
Join special virtual events, watch recordings, and read about the financial realities for women and how you can stay on track.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...