https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0067

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Investing tips and strategies
Which investment mix may be right for you?
Combining the three different investment types doesn’t have to be a challenge.
Investing is a bit like cooking. The same basic ingredients can be combined in different ways to create a meal. It’s the combination that’s important. Investors use this principle, too. In fact, some studies suggest that up to 91.5% of the ups and downs in your investment mix are a function of the way you spread your money across the three different investment types — stocks, bonds, and short-term investments
1
.
That means how you divide your money among stocks, bonds, and short-term investments could be more important than the specific funds you choose.
Of course, investing in this way won’t ensure a profit, and it can’t guarantee that you won’t lose money. But it could help you get ready for tomorrow while sleeping more soundly tonight.
So how do you decide which combination is right for you? It’s all about finding a mix that matches your time horizon, investment goals, and risk tolerance.
Brush up on the Basics
Stocks, bonds, and short-term investments each behave in different ways. Each reacts to changing market conditions differently, too. Because of these differences, each plays a unique role in your investment mix.
Get to Know Your Investment Menu
Whether you’re a do-it-yourselfer or a delegator, the UC Retirement Savings Program (RSP) fund menu gives you options to build a diversified investment mix. You can combine funds as needed to create a mix that matches your needs. Learn more about investing and the UC fund menu by attending one of UC's financial education classes. View the
schedule
.
Prefer to leave it to the pros?
If you don’t have the time, interest, and skills to craft your own mix of investments, you may want to consider investing in one of the UC Pathway Funds
2
. Each Pathway Fund is a professionally managed, diversified mix of stocks, bonds, and short-term investments — all in one fund.
Just pick the fund with the date closest to the year you expect to retire — that’s the fund’s target date. The fund will automatically adjust to grow more conservative as it approaches its target date and moves beyond.
The result: You only have one fund to monitor.
Want to make your own mix?
If you have the time, interest, and skills to craft your own mix of investments, you may want to create your mix from UC’s high-quality, lower fee core funds.
You’ll find a wide range of stock and bond funds, plus a short-term fund, all simply named so you can easily understand the differences. Remember, you can combine the asset classes in different ways based on when you plan to retire and how much risk you want to take.
If you want more flexibility and like researching, managing, and monitoring your investments, explore a self-directed brokerage account, too.
Next steps to consider
Explore the investments available by
reading the fund profiles
on the Investment Performance and Research page on NetBenefits®.
Then
allocate your savings
according to the percentages you want on NetBenefits. Keep in mind that as your timeline to retirement changes, so should your mix.
Meet with a UC-dedicated Workplace Financial Consultant if you have questions or want help building your investment mix. Call
1-800-558-9182
or
book a consultation
.
1
Source: “Determinants of Portfolio Performance,” Brinson, Hood and Beebower, Financial Analysts Journal, July- August 1986, and “Determinants of Performance II: An Update,” Brinson, Singer and Beebower, Financial Analysts Journal, May-June 1991. This represents a landmark study that has not been refuted and which stands today as a valid, widely accepted theory.
2
The funds' portfolios' asset allocation changes. The funds' portfolios are subject to the volatility of the financial markets, including that of equity and fixed income investments in the U.S. and abroad, and may be subject to risks associated with investing in high-yield, small-cap, and foreign securities. Principal invested is not guaranteed at any time, including at or after the funds' portfolios' target dates. The University of California intends to continue the benefits described here indefinitely; however, the benefits of all employees, retirees, and plan beneficiaries are subject to change or termination at the time of contract renewal or at any other time by the University or other governing authorities. If you belong to an exclusively represented bargaining unit, some of your benefits may differ from the ones described here.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2021-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
968525.3.0
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
4 tips to navigate volatile markets
A good plan can help you beat your fears of a market downturn.
ARTICLE
Put the law of averages to work for your retirement
It can be tempting to think you can avoid stock market volatility by selling your investments and buying them back when things settle down. But it can be very difficult to pinpoint market bottoms or tops.
VIDEO
Stay the course: How to handle market volatility
Watch Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, and retirement planning professionals from Fidelity discuss recent market volatility and provide tips for retirement savers and other long-term investors.
1:48
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
6 biggest pitfalls for investors
Avoid these common emotional biases to help improve your financial life.
ARTICLE
Straight talk on three investing myths
Listening to a myth can lead you to invest in a way that doesn't suit your needs.
VIDEO
Inflation, Recession Risk, Energy Crisis, and Market Volatility
Watch this informative session for valuable insights into the current economic climate, including inflation, recession risk, the energy crisis and market volatility.
1:02:30
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...