https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0077

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Ready to Retire
Retiree Health & Welfare Benefits
What it is
When you retire, or begin receiving disability income under UCRP, you may be eligible to continue your UC-sponsored health and welfare coverage.
Benefits you may continue include:
Medical
Dental
Vision
Legal
AD&D
These benefits are separate from your primary retirement benefits, and are not a vested benefit. That means these benefits are not guaranteed and that UC’s contributions to the cost of these benefits may change or be discontinued at any time. For more information, visit
UCnet
or contact
RASC
.
Eligibility
To be eligible for retiree health and welfare benefits, you must meet the following criteria (in addition to age and service credit requirements):
Have a retirement date that is within 120 days of the date you end UC employment employment (for Savings Choice participants, the date your retiree health benefits coverage begins will be treated as your retirement date for this purpose)
Be an active eligible employee enrolled in either UCRP (including Pension Choice) or Savings Choice
Be enrolled in or eligible to enroll in Full UC employee benefits
Continue health coverage until your retiree health benefits become effective
Retiree health and welfare benefits are not available to those who elect a UCRP Lump Sum Cashout or to those who take a full refund or rollover of Savings Choice accumulations before beginning retiree health benefits. A partial refund or rollover of Savings Choice account funds will not affect eligibility for retiree health benefits, or retiree health service credit, as long as the DC Plan account maintains a balance of at least $2,000 (with some of that money remaining in the Savings Choice account).
If there is a gap in time between the date you end UC employment and the date your UC-sponsored retiree medical and dental benefits become effective, you may have to pay the full monthly cost for your medical and dental plans (including UC’s contribution) to continue coverage during the gap period and maintain eligibility.
You may also continue your vision and legal insurance during any gap period to ensure continuing coverage. If you don’t continue vision and legal coverage during this gap, though, you may add coverage during a future Open Enrollment period (if the plan is open). Retiree accidental death & dismemberment insurance can be added at any time.
For questions about eligibility or for more information about these benefits, contact the
Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC)
.
Contributions
Currently, UC contributes toward the monthly cost of medical and dental coverage for eligible employees. The amount UC will contribute depends on the date you became eligible for benefits (or your rehire date if you incurred a break in service of more than 120 days) and the amount of service credit you have earned.
UC’s contributions are not part of your vested, or guaranteed, retirement benefits and are therefore subject to change. These benefits are subject to collective bargaining. If you're in a union, consult your
collective bargaining agreement
for details.
If you enroll in UC primary retirement benefits or are rehired on or after July 1, 2013 (including eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 2016)
If you enroll in UC primary retirement benefits on or after July 1, 2013 (or are rehired into an eligible position after that date following a break in service of more than 120 days), you are eligible to enroll in retiree health benefits provided you are 55 or older and have at least 10 years of service credit at the time you retire. If you retire at age 56 or older, you will receive a percentage of UC’s contribution toward monthly premiums based on your age and years of UCRP or Savings Choice service credit at retirement.
To receive the maximum UC contribution, you need to retire at age 65 with 20 or more years of service.
For more details, see
UCnet
.
If you became a member of UCRP between Jan. 1, 1990 and June 30, 2013
If you became a member of UCRP between Jan. 1, 1990 and June 30, 2013, the UC contribution toward medical and/or dental plan monthly premiums is based on the following formula:
5-9 years of UCRP service credit
: If age plus years of service (no rounding) is at least 75 then you receive 50% of UC's contribution; otherwise not eligible.
10 years of UCRP service credit
: 50% of UC's contribution.
11-20 years of UCRP service credit
: Percent of UC's contribution increases from 50% by 5% per year to 100% at 20 years.
This also applies to all Safety members.
If you became a member of UCRP before Jan. 1, 1990
If you became a member of UCRP before Jan. 1, 1990, and you have not had a break in service of more than 120 days, you will receive 100 percent of UC’s contribution toward the medical and/or dental monthly premiums if:
You retire before age 55 and have at least 10 years of UCRP service credit (five years for Safety members).
You retire at age 55 or later and have at least five years of UCRP service credit.
Please note:
Currently UC contributes to the cost of medical and dental premiums for eligible retirees. The amount of the contribution is determined annually, depending on state funding and other factors. It is not a guaranteed benefit and could be discontinued at any time.
Want to estimate Retiree Health Premiums?
Check out the estimator tool on UC Davis’s Health Care Facilitator page
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
How much money will you need in retirement?
How much money will you really need when you retire? A lot depends on how you live.
ARTICLE
Five things to consider before you retire
Planning to retire soon? Consider these five factors.
ARTICLE
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
NEWS
Alert: Be careful about financial advisor solicitations
Don't be confused by solicitations from unauthorized advisors. Remember, UC contracts exclusively with Fidelity for all financial education and guidance services.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
FACT SHEET
Create Your Budget Activity Sheet
ARTICLE
Will working during retirement affect your benefits?
If you decide to keep earning a paycheck in retirement, here are a few financial rules to keep in mind.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...