https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0070

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Creating a retirement income strategy
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
When you retire, just about everything in your life changes — from your daily routine to your finances. Instead of receiving a paycheck from UC, you’ll be creating your own paycheck from the money you’ve saved over your working years, as well as other sources, such as the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) or Social Security. If you’re a long-time UC employee, you might find that your potential retirement income from the UCRP is not that different from your current take-home pay.
Let’s consider three examples.
1. Meet Haru
Haru is a staff member with 30 years of service credit, planning to retire at age 60. Haru  earned an average of $60,000 annually in the last three years, with a monthly gross salary from UC of $5,000. We assume that Haru is married, files jointly, and claims one tax allowance.
In retirement, the monthly take-home income is slightly less than Haru's working paycheck. But in addition, Haru will have the UC Retirement Savings Program (UCRSP) account balances, CAP (capital accumulation payment) balance, and, once Haru reaches age 67, Social Security benefits.
2. Meet Aftan
Aftan began a second career with UC more than a decade ago, and is planning to retire at age 60. Over the last three years, Aftan earned an average of $75,000 annually, and has 12 years of service credit. Aftan's monthly gross salary from UC is $6,250. For purposes of this example,  we assume that Aftan has a registered domestic partner and claims one tax allowance.
In retirement, the monthly take-home income is less than one-third of Aftan's working paycheck; however, it will include the UCRSP account balances, 401(k) savings and pension benefits from previous employers, and Social Security benefits.
3. Meet Reyes
Reyes joined UC in 1974 and is not coordinated with Social Security or Medicare. Reyes earned an average of $188,000 annually the last three years, and at retirement at age 65, Reyes will  have 40 years of service credit. Reyes' monthly gross salary from UC is $15,666, and we assume that Reyes is married, files jointly, and claims one tax allowance.
In retirement, the monthly take-home income is more than Reyes' working paycheck. In addition, Reyes will have the UCRSP account balances and the balance in the CAP.
How to Estimate Your Own Retirement Income
To estimate your own retirement income, check your Retirement Review, which shows an estimate of your UCRP pension benefit, plus an estimate of your accounts in the 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans, assuming you retire at age 65.
If you are not eligible for UCRP, the site can estimate your retirement income at age 65 once you enter your annual pay. You may find that you’re on track to have what you need. If not, you may have other sources of income that can make up the difference, such as a previous employer’s plan and Social Security. Also consider ramping up your voluntary contributions to the 403(b) and/or 457(b) Plans.
Find your Retirement Review
. Log in to view your
Retirement Review
.
Get help estimating your retirement income
. To talk with a UC-dedicated Workplace Financial Consultant, call
1-800-558-9182
or
schedule a meeting.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2021-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
964046.2.0
Take action
Log into your Retirement Review
to estimate the retirement income you could have from your UC benefits, assuming you retire from UC at 65.
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Four steps to help make your money last
Take steps to maintain a steady income throughout your retirement.
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
Options for taking your first required minimum distribution (RMD)
Important deadline options and tax implications to consider before withdrawing your first RMD.
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income
Hear why UC offers this important benefit and why it can be a good time to buy Deferred Lifetime Income.
4:52
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PLAN MATERIAL
Deferred Lifetime Income Decision Guide
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income - Step-by-Step Purchase Process
Get a step-by-step overview of the process for making a Deferred Lifetime Income purchase.
6:06
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
VIDEO
Your Retirement Transition: Go from Saving to Spending
A discussion with facts and potential next steps for building a retirement income plan with the goal of preserving your savings and growing your money in retirement.
44:16
Your browser does not support the video tag.
NEWS
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
A new automatic withdrawals tool gives you more flexibility than ever.
ARTICLE
How to maximize your retirement income
After working hard to build your retirement savings, don't let taxes take a big bite out of them.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Three tax and retirement income planning moves for retirees
Learn how you can make some smart tax and retirement income planning moves.
ARTICLE
Resources to help you prepare for retirement
If you’re ready to retire, here are resources to help ensure a successful transition.
ARTICLE
Social Security tips for working retirees
If you work in retirement, know the impact to your Social Security and taxes.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
VIDEO
Social Security: Time to talk | Q&A
Watch this video to learn answers to common questions about Social Security.
5:37
Your browser does not support the video tag.
TOOL
Deferred Lifetime Income
Interactive estimator to help decide how much Deferred Lifetime Income to purchase.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...