https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0073

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Retirement Plan – 1976 Tier
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
Membership/Enrollment
If you meet the eligibility requirements, you automatically become a UCRP member and deductions are taken. If you were
hired before July 1, 2013
, and meet the eligibility requirements, you automatically become a UCRP member and deductions are taken. For details, including eligibility requirements, please see the
Summary Plan Descriptions
.
If you have had a break in service, please contact the UC Retirement Administration Service Center at
1-800-888-8267
to determine your benefits under UCRP.
How it works
As a UCRP 1976 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 50 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit or a lump sum cashout. For additional details, please refer to
UCnet
.
Components
One component: Pension benefit through the UCRP based on eligible pay.
Shared contributions
Employer and employee contribution rates are set periodically by the UC Regents.
Currently, most UCRP members contribute 8% of regular pay. Contributions are made on a pretax basis.
The total UC contribution rate to UCRP for all members is currently 14.5% of eligible pay.
Employee contributions and the UCRP provisions described here are subject to collective bargaining for represented employees.  Please refer to the appropriate
collective bargaining agreement
, as benefits and other provisions may vary.
Your retirement income
If you are eligible, your UCRP benefit is based on your age, your years of UC service, and your highest average consecutive 36 months of pay.
You become vested in your future UCRP benefit when you have five years or more of UCRP service credit; essentially, five years of membership in UCRP if you work full time. Once you're vested, you can begin taking your UCRP benefits as either monthly payments or a lump sum when you leave UC and are at least age 50. Since your contributions are generally made on a pretax basis, your UCRP benefits are generally taxable.
Monthly payments:
Payments will be made over your lifetime. When you die, your surviving spouse or domestic partner automatically receives 25% of your monthly retirement benefit.
You may choose a reduced benefit over your lifetime in order to provide an additional benefit over the lifetime of your survivor or other designated recipient.
UCRP benefits can be no more than 100% of your highest average pay and may be subject to IRS limits.
If you elect monthly income, you and your eligible survivors may also qualify for
retiree health benefits
.
Lump sum payment:
A lump sum payment is available if you are eligible to retire and have never previously received monthly retirement income from UCRP.
Think carefully before you choose a lump sum payment. When you take a lump sum, you give up the right to other UCRP benefits, including monthly survivor income, and will not be eligible for retiree health care coverage.
Other Benefits
If you become permanently disabled, you may also be eligible for UCRP Disability Income which can include retiree health benefits and additional service credit towards retirement. Please see the
1976 Tier SPD
for more details.
DC Plan Account
If you were a career employee prior to 2010, you previously made mandatory pretax contributions to the DC Plan. If so, those contributions remain in your account. When you retire, you can draw retirement income as needed from your account.
You select investments for your DC Plan account, choosing from a menu of available investment options. Your account balance depends on your own contributions, plus investment performance over time. The value of your account can go up or down.
No loans are available from this plan. Withdrawals and rollovers are not allowed while actively employed at UC unless you are age 59½ or older. Your withdrawals are normally subject to taxes. Your account is portable, so you can normally rollover part or all of your account balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA whenever you are no longer working at UC. All distributions are subject to Plan rules.
Learn more
Estimate your primary retirement benefit income on
UCRAYS
See
benefits for Safe Harbor employees
(seasonal, part-time, and temporary)
View the
Summary Plan Descriptions
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...