https://www.myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0075

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
457(b) Plan
What it is
The 457(b) Plan is a retirement plan that lets you add to your retirement account with pretax and
Roth contributions
.
With pretax contributions, taxes on your contributions and any investment earnings are deferred until you withdraw the money.
With Roth contributions, you pay taxes now on your contributions, and have the opportunity for tax-free income in retirement.*
Your account is portable, so you can normally rollover part or all of your account balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA without penalty whenever you are no longer working at UC.
Eligibility and contributions
All UC employees can make supplemental pretax and/or Roth contributions to this plan, with the exception of students working under 20 hours per week. This plan also accepts
eligible rollovers
from previous employer retirement plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs).
If you are under 50
, you can contribute up to
$23,500
to this plan in 2025, in any combination of pretax and Roth.
If you are 50 or older
, you can contribute up to $31,000 to this plan in 2025, in any combination of pretax and Roth. Some employees may be able to make additional catch-up contributions under plan provision.
Your total combined annual contributions cannot equal more than 100% of your annual compensation.
Please note:
Contributions (including new deferrals, changes to deferrals and cancellations) in the UC 457(b) Plan will take effect with the next available paycheck (subject to payroll cut-off dates).
Benefit
Your account balance depends on your own contributions, plus investment performance over time. When you retire, you can draw retirement income as needed from your account.
Investments
You select investments for your account, choosing from a menu of available investment options. If you don't choose investments, your contributions are automatically invested in a
UC Pathway Fund
near the year you reach age 65.  The UC Pathway Funds are subject to the same kinds of risks you’d face if you chose a diversified portfolio on your own.
The 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans offer the same
investment menu
. UC provides tools, resources, and one-on-one guidance to help you understand how to plan and invest for retirement.
Loans and withdrawals
No loans are available from this plan. If you have an eligible financial hardship while you are working for UC, you may be able to take a hardship withdrawal.
Withdrawals and rollovers out of the plan are not allowed while actively employed at UC unless you are age 59.5 or older. Your withdrawals are normally subject to taxes. Early withdrawal penalties normally do not apply to withdrawals of your contributions and earnings from the 457(b) Plan. Note that, In general, Roth distributions are not subject to federal income tax when withdrawn after the aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: age 59.5; disability; or death.
All distributions are subject to plan rules.
Wondering which supplemental plan to start with?
The supplemental UC Retirement Savings Program — the 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans — provide three options to help you build additional retirement savings to augment your primary UC retirement benefits, Social Security, and other non-UC retirement income.
Learn more about the differences.
Enroll in the 403(b), 457(b), or After-tax DC Plan now
, or
use Easy Enroll to quickly enroll in the 403(b)
. For help, call Fidelity at 866-682-7787.
*In general, Roth distributions are not subject to federal income tax when withdrawn after the aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: age 59.5; disability; or death.
The investment risks of each target date Pathway Fund change over time as each fund's asset allocation changes. Assets held in the Pathway Funds are subject to the volatility of the financial markets, including equity and fixed income investments in the U.S. and abroad, and may be subject to risks associated with investing in high yield, small cap and foreign securities. Principal invested is not guaranteed at any time, including at or after their target dates.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2021–2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
765487.11.0
Learn more
UCRSP Fund Menu
Summary Plan Descriptions
Roth Brochure
Required Minimum Distributions (RMD) Fact Sheet
Supplemental Retirement Benefits Notice
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...