https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0081

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Creating a retirement income strategy
Four steps to help make your money last
Take steps to maintain a steady income throughout your retirement.
For most of your working life, you’ve heard about the importance of saving and investing for retirement. And as important as that is, equally critical is steady income and a spending plan for all your years in retirement.
Here are four steps to help you keep the income from your retirement savings flowing through all the years of your life.
1. Align your income and expenses
Visit
netbenefits.com
to:
Create a retirement plan using Fidelity's Planning and Guidance Center.
A good plan helps organize your finances, guide your decisions, prepare you for the unexpected. It also serves as a monthly budgeting tool that can be adjusted at any time. The planning tools in
NetBenefits®
make it easier to plan for the retirement you envision. From anywhere in
NetBenefits
, just click the Planning link (login required).
Set up recurring, automatic withdrawals.
If you’re currently taking distributions from your retirement savings accounts, automatic withdrawals let you schedule regular payments from your retirement savings plan straight to your bank account. If you have left or retired from UC, you can now use an
online automatic withdrawals tool
that gives you more flexibility over how much you take from your accounts, and when.
2. Re-evaluate your investments
Consider the UC Pathway Funds to simplify investing.
The
UC Pathway Funds
let you choose one fund based on the date you think you will retire, or the year you plan to start taking money from your account. The Pathway Funds invest in a diversified mix of underlying stock and bond funds that gradually grows more conservative as each fund nears its target date and moves beyond. The Pathway Income Fund is designed for retirees and aims to preserve savings while seeking growth for a long retirement.
Make sure your current investments are right for your age, goals, life expectancy and risk tolerance.
Consider reviewing your investments to make sure they continue to
match your needs
. As retirement moves closer, you may want to hold a larger portion of your savings in bonds and short-term investments. If you are nearing retirement, take into account the effect inflation will have on net investment returns.
3. Incorporate income security
Assess the amount of guaranteed income you expect.
Determine the level of guaranteed income you expect from sources like
Social Security
and your UCRP pension. Then use your
UC Retirement Review
to determine if your guaranteed income will meet your spending needs in your later years of retirement. Your Retirement Review is a personalized statement that provides a snapshot of the retirement income you are on track to receive from all your UC retirement benefits, plus a readiness score that lets you quickly see how you are doing towards your retirement income goal.
Explore the Deferred Lifetime Income option available through the UC Pathway Funds.
UC offers Deferred Lifetime Income through the UC Pathway Funds — the target-date fund series available in the UC Retirement Savings Program.
Deferred Lifetime Income
is designed to let you convert a portion of your UC 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan balance into fixed monthly payments beginning at age 78, when you may need it most. You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income for yourself, or for yourself and a spouse. Plus, you can choose a beneficiary to receive any money you used to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium) that has not already been paid to you.
This year's purchase window will be open from September 2 – 25, 2025.
New for 2024! Use any Pathway Fund to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income.
This year, you can use any Pathway Fund in your 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income, giving you more flexibility when the
election window opens on September 2nd, 2025
.
4. Streamline and keep things simple
Make managing your assets easier by consolidating your UC Retirement Savings Program accounts.
If you have accounts in more than one of the UC Retirement Savings Program plans (the UC 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plan), consider consolidating them into a single plan.* Consolidating your accounts helps you manage and monitor the assets more easily. Plus, you only have to keep track of one set of beneficiaries, investments and minimum required distributions. Call a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant at
1-800-558-9182
to explore this idea in detail.
Consider rolling over retirement savings from other employers into your UC 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plan.
If you have a retirement account still sitting in a previous employer’s plan,
consider rolling the balance to your UC Retirement Savings Plan (UCRSP) accounts
. Consolidating your retirement accounts helps you manage and monitor the assets more easily, and you may benefit from UC’s lower fee structure.
Want one-on-one help?
Meet with a Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person for help with many of life’s money matters. When you retire from UC, Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultants work with RASC Counselors to help you understand your total retirement income and make decisions about your savings benefits. It’s a valuable service available to UC Retirement Savings Plan participants at no additional cost.
By phone:
Call
1-800-558-9182
. No appointment needed.
In person:
Schedule a time to talk
with your UC location's dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant.
* As long as your plan balance is at least $2,000. Rollovers from outside, qualified plans are allowed, even if you no longer work at UC.
© 2021-
2025
Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Learn more
Learn about the
three keys to your retirement income plan
.
Get a quick overview of the
Deferred Lifetime Income option
.
Explore the online tutorial
.
Watch:
Watch the recorded webcast:
Deferred Lifetime Income - The Next Generation of Retirement Planning
Attend a webinar on:
Maximizing Social Security benefits
Managing withdrawals
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Three keys to your retirement income plan
Build a plan with income, growth potential, and flexibility in mind.
ARTICLE
Options for taking your first required minimum distribution (RMD)
Important deadline options and tax implications to consider before withdrawing your first RMD.
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income
Hear why UC offers this important benefit and why it can be a good time to buy Deferred Lifetime Income.
4:52
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PLAN MATERIAL
Deferred Lifetime Income Decision Guide
VIDEO
Deferred Lifetime Income - Step-by-Step Purchase Process
Get a step-by-step overview of the process for making a Deferred Lifetime Income purchase.
6:06
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
Payment options for UC's pension plan
One of the biggest benefits decisions you’ll make is how to take your UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) benefit when you retire.
VIDEO
Your Retirement Transition: Go from Saving to Spending
A discussion with facts and potential next steps for building a retirement income plan with the goal of preserving your savings and growing your money in retirement.
44:16
Your browser does not support the video tag.
NEWS
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
A new automatic withdrawals tool gives you more flexibility than ever.
ARTICLE
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
Your future pension income may not be so different from your take-home pay now.
ARTICLE
How to maximize your retirement income
After working hard to build your retirement savings, don't let taxes take a big bite out of them.
ARTICLE
How to switch from saving to spending
These four tips can help you make the transition to retirement.
ARTICLE
Three tax and retirement income planning moves for retirees
Learn how you can make some smart tax and retirement income planning moves.
ARTICLE
Resources to help you prepare for retirement
If you’re ready to retire, here are resources to help ensure a successful transition.
ARTICLE
Social Security tips for working retirees
If you work in retirement, know the impact to your Social Security and taxes.
ARTICLE
Should you take Social Security at 62?
Taking Social Security as soon as you're eligible is tempting, but there's a trade-off.
VIDEO
Social Security: Time to talk | Q&A
Watch this video to learn answers to common questions about Social Security.
5:37
Your browser does not support the video tag.
TOOL
Deferred Lifetime Income
Interactive estimator to help decide how much Deferred Lifetime Income to purchase.
TOOL
UCRAYS
Manage your UC Retirement Plan account (your pension benefit) and estimate your retirement income from UCRP.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...