https://www.myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0072

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Retirement Plan – 2013 Tier
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
Membership/Enrollment
If you were
hired between July 1, 2013 and June 30, 2016
and meet the eligibility requirements, you automatically become a UCRP member and deductions are taken. For details, including eligibility requirements, please see the
Summary Plan Descriptions
.
If you have had a break in service, please contact the UC Retirement Administration Service Center at 1-800-888-8267 to determine your benefits under UCRP.
How it works
As a UCRP 2013 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive UCRP benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 55 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit. For additional details, please refer to
UCnet
.
Components
One component: Pension benefit through the UCRP based on eligible pay.
Shared contributions
Employer and employee contribution rates are set periodically by the UC Regents.
Currently, most UCRP members contribute 7% of regular pay. Contributions are made on a pretax basis.
The total UC contribution rate to UCRP for all members is currently 14.5% of eligible pay.
Your retirement income
If you are eligible, your UCRP benefit is based on your age, your years of UCRP service, and your highest average consecutive 36 months of pay.
You become vested in your future UCRP benefit when you have five years or more of UCRP service credit; essentially, five years of membership in UCRP if you work full time. Once you're vested, you can begin taking your UCRP benefits when you leave UC and are at least age 55. Since your contributions are generally made on a pretax basis, your UCRP benefits are generally taxable. (UCRP provisions are subject to collective bargaining for represented employees.)
You will receive monthly payments, made over your lifetime.
You may choose a reduced benefit over your lifetime in order to provide a benefit over the lifetime of your survivor or other designated recipient.
UCRP benefits can be no more than 100% of your highest average pay and may be subject to IRS limits.
Other retirement benefits
If you have 10 or more years of UC service, you and your eligible survivors may also quality for
retiree health benefits
.
If you become permanently disabled, you may also be eligible for UCRP Disability Income which can include retiree health benefits and additional service credit towards retirement. Please see the
2013 Tier SPD
for more details.
Note:
Certain union employees are members of the Modified 2013 Tier. Please refer to your
collective bargaining agreement
for contribution and plan benefit provisions.
Learn more
Estimate your primary retirement benefit income on
UCRAYS
See
benefits for Safe Harbor employees
View the
Summary Plan Descriptions
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...