https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0047

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Retirement readiness tips and strategies
Recently retired? Consider these next steps
Now that you are retired, it’s more important than ever to plan for what’s ahead.
The University of California offers a wide range of tools and resources to help retirees like you manage your money and make sure that it lasts as long as you need it to.
Consider these important steps today and throughout your retirement.
1. Bookmark the “In Retirement” Page on myucretirement.com.
UC’s
In Retirement
page
is your one-stop resource for articles, videos, checklists and more.
You’ll find helpful information about UC’s retirement benefits, personal finance tips, how to keep your various accounts updated and who to contact with questions. Check in regularly to get the latest news and updated resources.
2. Create a plan that aligns your income and spending needs with your financial goals.
A good income plan helps organize your finances, guide your decisions, and prepare you for the unexpected. Plan to use your savings wisely through a long retirement, inflation and market volatility. Explore
retirement income strategies
that can help you keep the income from your retirement savings flowing through all the years of your life.
Once you’ve created a retirement income plan, it can also serve as a monthly budgeting tool that can be adjusted at any time.
3. Streamline and keep things simple.
Remember that you can keep your money in the UC Retirement Savings Program (RSP) — your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plans* — which provides access to low-cost funds including the UC Pathway Income Fund that is designed for people living in retirement.
Consider
consolidating your RSP accounts
into a single plan so you can manage your assets more easily. You can also move outside assets into the RSP — even though you no longer work for UC.
You can set up recurring automatic withdrawals from your RSP account, directly into your bank account or by check, online at
netbenefits.com
or by calling Fidelity at
800-558-9182
.
4. Re-evaluate your investment strategy and portfolio mix.
Investment growth plays an important role in a retirement income strategy, and an appropriate investment mix is essential to smart investing. As investments gain or lose value, you should review and adjust your mix of stocks, bonds and cash to ensure it remains in balance.
If you prefer a simpler approach to investing, you may want to consider the UC Pathway Income Fund, which aims to help preserve your savings, but still seeks growth for a retirement that may last for decades. It’s also designed to help support your retirement income strategy.
Learn more about the
investment options available
through the UC Retirement Savings Program.
Target Date Funds are an asset mix of stocks, bonds and other investments that automatically becomes more conservative as the fund approaches its target retirement date and beyond. Principal invested is not guaranteed.
5. Meet with a UC-dedicated Workplace Financial Consultant.
Get help creating — or fine-tuning — your retirement income plan and investment strategy, and learn how to use the many tools available to you. The University of California offers personal, one-on-one retirement and investment help from a UC-dedicated workplace financial consultant.
For your convenience, there are several meeting options:
Schedule a phone or Zoom one-on-one
with a local Workplace Financial Consultant.
Call 1-800-558-9182
Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
The Bottom Line
The UC Retirement Savings Program continues to provide advantages that you only get in the UC Plans. No matter what your plans for retirement, we’re here to help you make the most of it.
* As long as your balance in each RSP account is greater than $2,000.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2020-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
908816.3.0
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
ARTICLE
Just 1% more can make a big difference
Increasing your contributions by just 1% now could mean a lot in retirement.
ARTICLE
Five steps to help you stay on target for your retirement goals
Want to know if your financial plans are on target? UC is here to help you find answers.
ARTICLE
Thinking of taking a loan from your 403(b)?
Before you take a loan from your UC 403(b) Plan account, consider the implications.
ARTICLE
Five things to consider before you retire
Planning to retire soon? Consider these five factors.
VIDEO
Stay the course: How to handle market volatility
Watch Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, and retirement planning professionals from Fidelity discuss recent market volatility and provide tips for retirement savers and other long-term investors.
1:48
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
How much money will you need in retirement?
How much money will you really need when you retire? A lot depends on how you live.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...