https://myucretirement.com/resources/articles/0041

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Optimizing UC's retirement benefits
Making sense of RMDs
Are you eligible to receive RMDs? Take some time to understand how RMDs work and the timing of distributions.
Once you reach age 73
1
you're required to withdraw a certain amount of money from your retirement plans, such as your UC 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plan, each year. That amount is called a required minimum distribution, or RMD.
Here are some answers to frequently asked questions to help you get started.
What is a Required Minimum Distribution (RMD)?
A Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) is a yearly mandatory withdrawal from tax-deferred retirement accounts that starts in the year the account owner reaches the age of 73.
What types of retirement accounts have RMDs?
After reaching age 73, RMDs must be taken from these types of tax-deferred retirement accounts:
Most 403(b) and 401(k) and plans, including all of UC’s Retirement Savings Program, which includes the 403(b)
2
, 457(b), and DC Plan.
Traditional, rollover, SIMPLE, and SEP IRAs.
Most small-business accounts (self-employed 401(k), profit sharing plan, money purchase plan).
What's the deadline for taking an RMD?
After reaching age 73, the deadline for taking your RMD is December 31 each year. However, if this is your first RMD you have the option to delay it until April 1 of the year following the year you reach age 73.
If you do not take your RMD by the annual deadline, it could result in an IRS penalty equal to 25% of the amount not taken on time.
Do I have to take RMDs from each of my UC Plans?
Yes, RMDs apply to all of UC's plans — including the 403(b)
2
, 457(b), and DC Plan — and you must satisfy the requirements for each plan separately. For example, if you have a balance in the 403(b) Plan
2
and in the DC Plan, and you meet the RMD requirements, you must take an RMD from each of those accounts.
Note: Starting January 1, 2024, 403(b) accounts will not take into account Roth contributions when calculating annual Required Minimum Distributions.
2
If you have more than one account in the UC Retirement Savings Program, you might consider consolidating your multiple accounts into one (if you are eligible) to streamline the number of distributions you must take.
Any distribution from your UC accounts will count toward that year's RMD. Note that if you withdraw more than the RMD amount for that year, you can’t use the excess to reduce RMD amounts in future years.
Distributions from an IRA or any non-UC plans do not satisfy the requirements for the UC plans.
Do I have to take RMDs from an IRA or Non-UC Retirement Savings Plan?
Yes, you will have to take RMDs from these accounts if you have them.
Note that you are not required to take RMDs from a Roth IRA and cannot satisfy an RMD requirement with a withdrawal from a Roth IRA.
Can I roll over my RMD?
No, RMDs are not eligible for rollover to other tax-deferred accounts.
Do I have to take my RMD if I am still working?
If you have never received an RMD and have a regular ongoing UC-paid appointment, you may defer RMD payments until the year your appointment ends. Note that unpaid appointments do not qualify for this deferral.
You will have to take RMDs from any IRAs or non-UC workplace retirement savings plan accounts you may have.
How do I calculate my RMD?
You can calculate your own RMD by using the
RMD Calculator
.
Here’s how it works:
Your RMD is generally determined by dividing your tax-deferred retirement account balance as of December 31 of the preceding year by a life expectancy factor. Your life expectancy factor corresponds with your age in the
IRS Uniform Lifetime Table.
However, if your spouse is your sole beneficiary and is more than 10 years younger than you, you will use the
IRS Joint Life and Last Survivor Expectancy Table.
How are RMDs taxed?
When taking a required minimum distribution (RMD), the money is taxed as ordinary income and as a result it may be subject to both federal and state taxes.
What happens if I don't take my RMD?
SECURE 2.0 reduces the penalty for failing to take an RMD from 50% to 25%. If an individual misses all or part of their RMD, they can request the penalty be reduced to 10% if timely corrected within two years of the correction window by (a) taking their missed amount and (b) filing a corrected tax return within the applicable period. Individuals should consult with a tax advisor if they believe that you may owe an excise tax on a missed required minimum distribution.
Taking an RMD will increase my taxable income. Is there anything I can do to reduce my taxable income or reduce the amount of my RMD?
If you are looking for ways to lower your taxable income from your UC 403(b), 457(b) or DC Plan accounts, you may want to consider
UC’s Deferred Lifetime Income option
. Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity called a Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (“QLAC”) that allows you to defer paying taxes on your income.
3
You purchase Deferred Lifetime Income from your UC Retirement Savings plan account. The amount you use to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income is excluded from the RMD calculation for these accounts, which effectively reduces your RMD and may reduce your taxable income. However, you will have to pay taxes on those assets when you start receiving your monthly Deferred Lifetime Income payments at age 78.
Note that you may only purchase Deferred Lifetime Income during an annual window. UC will notify you if you are eligible. In addition, QLAC purchases are subject to a specific limit set by the IRS. Please consult a qualified tax advisor.
*Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (“QLAC”), which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump‐sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply. Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims‐paying ability. Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
Note: RMDs are not required from Roth contributions to the 403(b) Plan.
This information is for educational purposes only.
The tax and retirement planning information contained herein is general in nature and should not be considered legal or tax advice. Fidelity does not provide legal or tax advice. This information is provided for general educational purposes only and you should bear in mind that laws of a particular state and your particular situation may affect this information. You should consult your attorney or tax advisor regarding your specific legal or tax situation.
If you transfer, recharacterize, or convert any assets into or out of your retirement accounts, you'll need to contact Fidelity to have your RMD recalculated.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2022-2025 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
1018566.4.0
Take action
Call
1-866-682-7787
to set up automatic withdrawals of your RMDs.
Read the RMD Fact Sheet
Use the RMD Calculator
to determine your projected RMD amount.
Visit NetBenefits
®
to view and track distributions from your retirement accounts
Related Resources
View all related resources
View all related resources
VIDEO
UC Retirement Benefits Overview
Get an overview of the retirement benefits UC offers.
8:23
Your browser does not support the video tag.
VIDEO
Introduction to myUCretirement.com
Get an overview of the UC Retirement Savings Program benefits and tips for navigating the website to help you learn more about your benefits.
3:25
Your browser does not support the video tag.
PLAN MATERIAL
Retirement Choice Decision Guide (PEPRA)
PLAN MATERIAL
Retirement Choice Decision Guide (Non-PEPRA)
ARTICLE
Get to know one of your most valuable UC benefits
How much do you know about your UC primary retirement benefits?
PLAN MATERIAL
Supplemental Retirement Benefits Notice
ARTICLE
Enroll in UC's 403(b) or 457(b)
Enroll and start saving in the UC 403(b) in about a minute.
ARTICLE
403(b) or 457(b): Which should you choose?
You owe it to yourself to explore UC’s 403(b) and 457(b) Plans.
ARTICLE
How to update your beneficiary
Make sure your loved ones have the security you worked so hard to build.
ARTICLE
How 403(b) loans work
Summary of the 403(b) Plan's loan provisions.
ARTICLE
Save more with your UC benefits
Retirement might be the time your "someday" becomes "today."
NEWS
Fee Policy updates for UC Retirement Savings Program participants
August 1, 2024
The UC Retirement Savings Program is implementing two administrative fee changes for the UC Retirement Savings Program.
ARTICLE
Are you ready to roll? Rollovers made easy
Consider rolling your old retirement account into your UC 403(b) or 457(b).
VIDEO
The Benefits of Saving and Investing in Retirement
Jagdeep Singh Bachher, UC's Chief Investment Officer, explains the concepts of asset allocation and diversification, and illustrates the potential benefits of long-term investing.
7:18
Your browser does not support the video tag.
VIDEO
How to Make the Most of Your Retirement Review
Learn how you can make the most of your Retirement Review.
3:37
Your browser does not support the video tag.
ARTICLE
How much can you save this year?
January 14, 2021
Putting just 1% more of your pay each month into the UC 403(b) or 457(b) Plans could make a real difference.
ARTICLE
Introduction to catch-up contributions
Did you know you can save more in the UC 403(b) or 457(b) if you're 50 or older?
ARTICLE
How to keep your retirement savings working when you leave UC
Have you ever cashed out your 401(k) or 403(b) when changing jobs?
ARTICLE
Take advantage of the DC Plan After-tax Account
If you’ve never considered making after-tax contributions to the DC Plan, the advantages may have you looking at the plan in a whole new way.
ARTICLE
What to do with your old 403(b)
Roll your old retirement accounts into your UC 403(b) or 457(b).
ARTICLE
Will working during retirement affect your benefits?
If you decide to keep earning a paycheck in retirement, here are a few financial rules to keep in mind.
FACT SHEET
Second Choice Window Fact Sheet
FACT SHEET
Required Minimum Distributions Fact Sheet (RMDs)
ARTICLE
A Roth option is now available
July 13, 2023
A Roth option is now available in the UC Retirement Savings Program.
PLAN MATERIAL
Roth Brochure
PLAN MATERIAL
UC Roth IRA Steps Flyer
PLAN MATERIAL
Safe Harbor Participants Enrollment Guide
FORM
Transfer/Rollover/Exchange Form
FACT SHEET
IRS Joint Life Expectancy Table
TOOL
Retirement Review
Model retirement income estimates from all UC benefits.
TOOL
Retirement Choice Modeler
Eligible new hires can model which Choice could work best.
FACT SHEET
IRS Uniform Lifetime Table
PLAN MATERIAL
What to do with your retirement savings when you leave UC
FACT SHEET
Returning to UC Employment After Retirement Fact Sheet
ARTICLE
Connect with a UC Retiree Center
As a UC retiree, you’re still a valuable part of the UC community. UC retiree centers help you prepare financially for retirement and stay connected to campus after you make the transition.
TOOL
Planning & Guidance Center
Create a holistic financial plan or investment strategy and monitor your progress on NetBenefits®.
Get 1:1  retirement planning support
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...