https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/retirees/understanding-your-retiree-benefits/details-retiree-benefits/returning-to-work-after-retirement/

Returning to work at UC after retirement | UCnet
Skip to content
Retirees
Understanding your retiree benefits
Returning to work at UC after retirement
Returning to work at UC after retirement
Retired UC employees are a valuable resource, providing the University with institutional knowledge, research resources and experienced replacements when needed. Many employers, including UC, turn to their retirees to address compelling needs for specialized knowledge and experience in the workplace.
Most rehired UC retirees work on a part-time basis and for a limited duration, which supports the orderly administration of the retirement system and the need to refresh the UC workforce.
UC’s policy on returning to work after retirement applies to those who are receiving UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) monthly income and those who elected a lump sum cashout at retirement.
The rules for faculty are different from those for senior management and staff. Review the
Returning to UC Employment After Retirement fact sheet PDF
to make sure you understand the rules that apply to your situation.
UC’s health and welfare benefits eligibility rules for rehired retired staff and recalled academics have changed, as of July 1, 2025. See
Rehired retiree support resources
below and
Rehired retiree benefits eligibility
for information about your benefits as a rehired retiree and how the policy changes may affect you.
The
Returning Retiree Benefits Checker
will ask you a few questions and provide a personalized summary of the benefits you’re eligible for.
On this page:
What you need to do
Rehired retiree support resources
What you need to do
Before returning to work at UC, retirees should:
Read the policy regarding returning to UC employment after retirement
PPSM 2.325 — Reemployment of UC Retired Employees Into Senior Management Group and Staff Positions
APM 205 — Recall of Academic Appointees PDF
Understand the effect of your reemployment on your medical insurance and Medicare
You may remain enrolled in all retiree health benefits if you do not become eligible for employee health and welfare benefits upon rehire or during your re-employment.
On July 1, 2025, important changes took effect to UC’s benefits eligibility policy for some people who return to UC employment within 26 weeks (6 months) of retirement.
If you become eligible for employee benefits upon rehire,
your enrollment in a UC retiree medical plan (if any) will be suspended
whether you accept or decline UC employee medical coverage.
Suspension of your UC retiree medical coverage means that you and your dependents will be ineligible to participate in a UC retiree medical plan during the period you are eligible for active employee medical coverage. If you are offered faculty/staff benefits, you’ll have a 31-day Period of Initial Eligibility to choose and enroll in UC employee coverage. Most rehired retirees who are eligible for faculty/staff benefits will be offered the
Mid-level benefits package
.
The
Returning Retiree Benefits Checker
will ask you a few questions and provide a personalized summary of the benefits you’re eligible for!
Note that if you’ve been rehired into a career position, you’ll have to suspend any medical, dental, vision and/or legal coverage you have as a retiree. You may enroll as an employee in any health and welfare benefits for which your reemployment qualifies you.
It is crucial for you to carefully assess your situation so you can make an informed decision that best aligns with your health care needs and financial situation. Please review the
Returning to UC Employment After Retirement fact sheet PDF
for details and
Rehired retiree support resources
for additional help.
Sign the UCRP Reemployed Retiree Notification Form
Rehired employees (including retired faculty rehired into staff positions) must submit a completed
UCRP Reemployed Retiree Notification form (UBEN 1039)
, available on UCnet or from your Benefits Office. The form documents your employment status and whether you are required to suspend your monthly retirement benefit. Retired faculty rehired into recall appointments do need to complete the form.
Retirees returning in a career academic appointment must send written notification to the
UC Retirement Administration Service Center
to suspend their retirement income.
Those who took a lump sum cashout are not required to sign the Notification Form.
For more information, see the
Returning to UC Employment after Retirement Fact Sheet PDF
.
Retirees who return to UC service may begin or resume making voluntary pretax salary deferrals to the 403(b) or 457(b) Plans, up to the IRS maximums. Visit myUCretirement.com or call Fidelity at 866-682-7787 to enroll.
Retirees who were rehired prior to January 1, 2009, are subject to the Rehired Retiree guidelines in place prior to implementation of the current policy until their appointment end date or a there is a change to their current appointment, whichever occurs first.
Individuals with indefinite end dates to their current appointments are subject to the Rehired Retiree guidelines in place prior to implementation of the current policy until their current appointment ends or there is a change to their current appointment, whichever occurs first.
Rehired retiree support resources
The changes in health and welfare benefits eligibility rules for rehired retired staff and recalled academics that went into effect on July 1, 2025, could have important implications for your benefits if you return to work at UC.
To help you prepare, UC teams have developed a full range of resources:
How-to guides
Guide for Retirees Returning to Work PDF
Guide for Retirees Returning to Work (for Via Benefits members) PDF
Guide for Returning to UC Retiree Insurance after Losing Eligibility PDF
Rehired retiree benefits eligibility webinar
Understand the new rules
This comprehensive webinar is presented live. You can also
watch the recording
or
review the presentation slides
.
When
:
Friday, Oct. 17, 2025, 10 to 11:30 a.m. (PT)
Beginning in November, 10 to 11:30 a.m. (PT) on the second Friday of each month
Join Zoom meeting
:
https://UCOP.zoom.us/j/92887245452?pwd=ItCbtAzKGJTSFnPY0V0tYELnEuWPmF.1&from=addon
Meeting ID: 928 8724 5452; Passcode: 095559
One tap mobile:
+12133388477,,92887245452#
US (Los Angeles)
+16692192599,,92887245452#
US (San Jose)
Rehired retiree benefits eligibility
Detailed information and frequently asked questions
UCPath
Eligibility for faculty/staff benefits
Fidelity
Retirement savings programs and required minimum distributions
For questions regarding required minimum distributions (RMDs) for the Retirement Savings Program (403(b), 457(b) and DC) plans, contact Fidelity at 1-800-558-9182.
UC Retirement Administration Service Center
Eligibility for retiree health and other benefits
If you still have questions or need additional support, please contact the UC Retirement Administration Service Center (
RASC
) at 1-800-888-8267 or
book an appointment with a RASC insurance liaison
.
Returning Retiree Benefits Checker
Answer a few questions for a personalized summary of the benefits you’re eligible for!
Check your benefits
More information
UC Retirement Administration Service Center (RASC)
UCRAYS
Returning to UC Employment After Retirement fact sheet PDF
Benefits Eligibility for Rehired Retirees
Retirees
Expand
Benefits for retirees
Expand
Retiree health & home benefits
For retirees: Identity theft protection
For retirees: Pets
Medical plans for retirees
Retiree AD&D
Retiree dental
Retiree legal
Retiree vision
Retirement Savings Program
UC Retirement Choice (UCRP 2016 Tier)
UCRP pension benefits: 1976 Tier
UCRP pension benefits: 2013 Tier
Expand
Retiree news
New Dimensions
Expand
Staying engaged with UC
Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes
Retiree and emeriti associations and centers
Expand
Understanding your retiree benefits
Expand
Details about your retiree benefits
Coverage for COVID-19 tests from UC’s Medicare plans
For retirees: Health coverage outside the U.S.
For retirees: Resolving disputes
Notice of Creditable Coverage
Retirement benefit direct deposit dates
Expand
Eligibility for retiree health and home benefits
Family member eligibility verification
Personalized support for retirees
Expand
Returning to work at UC after retirement
Rehired retiree benefits eligibility
Expand
UC coverage and Medicare
Medicare office hours and webinars