https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/understanding-your-benefits/second-choice-modeler

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Back to modeler overview
Your Retirement Second Choice Modeler
If you elected Savings Choice, you have the opportunity between your fifth and tenth year of employment to switch to Pension Choice. This is referred to as Second Choice. Use this modeler to compare your options and see how different choices impact your retirement income.
View assumptions and plan limits that impact how your benefits may accumulate over time
Model inputs
Were you a UC employee prior to July 1, 2016, or are you a CalPERS Classic Member eligible for reciprocity?
Learn more
Yes
No
Are you eligible for
Faculty
or
Staff
benefits under the Retirement Choice Program?
Not sure? Click here.
Faculty benefits
Staff benefits
Annual pay
$
Current age
Second Choice year
Must be between 5 to 10 years from Savings Choice election
Inflation rate
Investment rate-of-return
Savings Choice Year
Please enter valid Savings Choice year
Savings Choice balance
$
Update
Make your Second Choice on UCRAYS
Assumptions and plan limits
This comparison of hypothetical values is for illustrative purposes only and does not guarantee future benefits or represent actual or implied performance of any investment option. Your own experience will differ.
Pension Choice UCRP benefit and vesting
For ease of comparison, the estimated annual retirement income at designated retirement age from the University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP) pension benefit is displayed. All estimated benefits projected in the modeler are for illustrative purposes only.
Hypothetical calculations are not a guarantee of eligibility or benefit amounts. The UCRP pension benefit shown in this modeler is calculated from UCRP plan provisions, data on file with Fidelity, and the data you provided. The benefit is based on a formula that includes your age, your years of UCRP service, and your 36-month Highest Average Plan Compensation (HAPC).
The calculations shown assume that you will continue working full-time for UC and earning UCRP service credit until your hypothetical employment termination date. Please refer to the
Summary Plan Description (SPD)
for additional details on the UCRP Retirement Plan (UCRP).
Please note:
Vesting in UCRP.
Pension benefits are vested generally after earning five years of service credit. Once vested, you can receive a UCRP pension any time after you have left UC and have reached the minimum retirement age (age 55). Prior to vesting, the accumulated value of any employee contributions is available when you leave UC (although you may leave the amount on deposit in UCRP and contributions will be credited with interest).
Vesting in the DC Supplement.
After accruing five years of UCRP service credit, the accumulated value of any employer contributions under the Pension Choice supplemental DC account are vested and available the earlier of when you leave employment with UC or age 59 1/2. Any employee contributions to the Pension Choice supplemental DC account are immediately vested.
Second Choice vesting in UCRP and the DC Supplement.
If you elect to switch from Savings Choice to Pension Choice during your Second Choice window, your service credit earned while a Savings Choice Participant can be applied toward the five years of service credit requirement to be vested in UCRP 2016 Tier benefits and the DC Supplement, if applicable.
PEPRA maximum.
Consistent with the limit on pensionable earnings established by the 2013 California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act (PEPRA), UCRP contributions and benefits are based on eligible pay up to a maximum of $155,081 in the current Plan Year. This PEPRA maximum is reviewed annually and adjusted periodically. The PEPRA maximum applies to most new employees hired after July 1, 2016. However, certain groups are not subject to the PEPRA maximum. In this case, UCRP contributions and benefits are based on eligible pay up to $350,000 in the current Plan Year, consistent with Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17), which limits annual earnings upon which retirement benefits and contributions may be based. The IRS reviews this maximum annually and adjusts it periodically.
Groups not subject to PEPRA maximum.
You are not subject to the PEPRA maximum and will have a higher maximum on your eligible pay if you:
Were a UCRP member prior to July 1, 2016;
Were a Safe Harbor employee prior to July 1, 2016;
Are eligible for reciprocity and have a CalPERS membership date prior to January 1, 2013 and complete and return the
UBEN 300
form within 90 days of a Pension Choice election.
Sick leave.
Service credit for unused sick leave has not been included in these calculations. Unused sick leave may qualify to be converted to UCRP service credit at retirement (if you are an active employee); eight hours of unused sick leave is equivalent to one day of service credit.
Saving Choice account and Pension Choice supplemental defined contribution account
For ease of comparison, the chart shows estimated annual retirement income at designated retirement age for the Savings Choice account and the Pension Choice supplemental DC account (if any). However, neither the Savings Choice nor the Pension Choice supplemental DC account provides for guaranteed monthly retirement income payments. Instead, you withdraw retirement income from these UC Defined Contribution Plan accounts as needed during retirement.
Calculations of hypothetical account balances and resulting hypothetical income assume that you contribute the amounts specified under the plan on an annual basis through the indicated retirement age. All illustrations assume that your contributions are made evenly throughout the year and that your account remains invested at all times. Future hypothetical contributions are based on your future pay, which is assumed to increase in future years; the percent of your pay contributed remains the same throughout the period shown.
Actual plan balances, at any point in the future, will be determined by the contributions that have been made, any plan activity, and any investment increases or losses that may occur. Systematic investing does not ensure a profit or guarantee against loss. Your actual benefits are provided according to the terms of the plans.
Please note:
Mortality rates and cost of living adjustment.
Mortality rates that are generally based on UCRP’s definition of Actuarial Equivalence and Cost of Living Adjustments (“COLA”) of 2% that begin one year after the projected commencement age have been used to estimate annual retirement income from this hypothetical estimated account balance.
Annuity interest rate.
Plan balances are converted to a fixed monthly stream of payment beginning at the retirement age selected. An interest rate of 4.25% has been used to estimate the annual retirement income. This assumption was selected for illustrative purposes and was generally based on historical annuity rates. Current market annuity rates are slightly higher than 4.25%, which would result in a slightly higher hypothetical annual retirement income than the illustrated amounts. Actual annuity rates may be higher or lower than 4.25% at time of commencement.
Inflation rate.
All illustrations incorporate the effects of the assumed inflation over time to determine the value at time of assumed benefit commencement. Future benefits are expressed in terms of the purchasing power of future dollars.
Pay maximum.
Contributions under the Pension Choice supplemental DC account and Savings Choice are based on eligible pay up to a maximum of $350,000 in the current Plan Year, consistent with Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17). The limits on the maximum amount of eligible pay are adjusted annually.
Investment return.
Estimates do not represent predictions or projections of the future value of actual holdings in your portfolio; rather, they represent calculations based on the hypothetical rate of return selected. The default hypothetical average annual rate of return for the Pension Choice supplemental DC account and Savings Choice is 5.25. This rate of return was provided by UC’s Office of the Chief Investment Officer. It represents a moderate investment mix consisting of 40% bonds, 40% domestic stocks, and 20% foreign stocks, and was derived from data based on long-term capital market assumptions employed by UCRP. You should choose your own investments based on your objectives and situation.
Stocks
are represented by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S&P 500
®
). The S&P 500
®
Index is a market capitalization–weighted index of 500 common stocks chosen for market size, liquidity, and industry group representation to represent U.S. equity performance. Stock prices are more volatile than those of other securities.
Bonds
are represented by the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index, which is an unmanaged index that includes the reinvestment of interest income. Government bonds and corporate bonds have more moderate short-term price fluctuation than stocks but provide lower potential long-term returns.
Short-term instruments
are represented by U.S. Treasury bills, which are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. U.S. Treasury bills maintain a stable value (if held to maturity), but returns are generally only slightly above the inflation rate.
Foreign stocks
are represented by the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East Index. The MSCI EAFE Index is a market capitalization-weighted index that is designed to measure the investable equity market performance for global investors in developed markets, excluding the U.S. & Canada.
Past performance does not guarantee future results.
Returns include the reinvestment of dividends and other earnings, but do not reflect fees. This is for illustrative purposes and does not represent actual or implied performance of any investment option. Your own plan account may earn more or less than these examples, and income taxes will be due when you withdraw from your account. Investing in this manner does not ensure a profit or guarantee against loss in declining markets. It is not possible to invest directly in an index.
All calculations assume the following:
Salaries are assumed to increase by 3.25% annually.
Depending on years of service, additional merit/promotional increases are assumed for eligible faculty, ranging from 2.70% in the first year of service to 1.20% after 30 years of service. Additional merit/promotional increases are assumed for staff and other academic employees, ranging from 2.30% in the first year of employment to 0.40% after 30 years of service. Salary assumptions are consistent with those used in UCRP’s annual actuarial valuation report.
The annual PEPRA maximum and annual IRS maximum
are assumed to increase with inflation in future years, where applicable.
You take no withdrawals
from any of your accounts before retirement.
You remain employed
throughout the period from date of hire to date of termination.
No past service credit
has been incorporated in the estimated projected benefits for rehired employees.
Your withdrawals begin the first of the month
in which it is assumed you will retire.
Plan provisions
remain the same.
All earnings
are reinvested.
Estimates do not reflect
investment management or other fees.
Adjustments
While some benefit adjustments may be made when you actually retire, these adjustments are not taken into account in the benefit calculations shown. Here are some, but not all, of the reasons an adjustment could be necessary:
Partial-year career appointment
Phased retirement participation
Qualified domestic relations order
Reciprocity with the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS)
Service credit buyback in progress
Sick leave converted to UCRP service credit
Strict-full-time salary plan
Limitations: UCRP limits the maximum basic retirement income to 100% of HAPC in addition to the maximum amount payable based on limitations found in IRC §415(b)
Definition of covered compensation/eligible pay
Eligible pay for this program is the gross pay that an active employee receives for a regular and normal appointment, including pay while on sabbatical or other approved leave of absence with pay. The following pay types are not included in eligible pay:
Pay for overtime unless in the form of compensatory time off
Pay for correspondence courses, summer session, intersession and for interquarter or vacation periods or University extension courses, unless such employment constitutes part of an annual or indefinite appointment
Pay for a position that is not normally full time except if paid on a salary or hourly rate basis
Pay that exceeds the full-time rate for the regular, normal position to which the member is appointed
Pay that exceeds the base salary as negotiated under the General Health Sciences Compensation Plan or Medical School Clinical Compensation Plan
Pay that exceeds the established base pay rates, including non-elective deferred compensation, honoraria and consulting fees
Payments received as uniform allowance, unless included as part of compensation for a regular and normal appointment
Pay that exceeds the applicable PEPRA or IRC §401(a)(17) dollar maximum
Payments received as housing allowance
Pay from sources other than the University of California
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...