https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Retirement Benefits
Making Your Retirement Choice
Benefits Overview
Understanding Your Benefits
Maximizing Your Benefits
Newly Eligible: Making Your Choice
Newly Benefits Eligible
It's time to choose your primary retirement benefit.
Welcome! We’re glad you’re a part of UC. Now it’s time to start taking advantage of the UC Retirement System benefits. UC’s primary retirement benefits provide a strong foundation to help you plan for retirement, with costs shared by you and UC.
UC offers
eligible employees
a choice of two different primary retirement benefit options:
Pension Choice
and
Savings Choice
.
Both provide a valuable retirement benefit that you can use — along with the Social Security benefits and any other savings you may have — to help build retirement income. Both you and UC contribute to the cost of the option you select. You choose the option that fits you best.
Use the resources available to understand your options. When you’re ready, select the “Make your election” button to the right.
Make your choice in three easy steps.
Step 1
Register with NetBenefits
Register with NetBenefits® to get a personalized learning experience. You will need to register before you can make your Choice election.
Register now
Step 2
Learn about your options
Review the plan details to learn more about your options. Click below to jump directly to the learning experience.
Learn about your choice
Step 3
Make your election
Once you’re ready, go to the election page to make your choice.
Make your election
Important: Do not wait 90 days to make your choice!
The sooner you enroll in Pension Choice or Savings Choice, the sooner you start receiving UC contributions (and service credit under Pension Choice). Your enrollment window closes once you submit a choice.
If you don’t choose a primary retirement option within your 90-day eligibility window, you will automatically be enrolled in Pension Choice and the enrollment is irrevocable.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Watch this video for an overview of the retirement benefit options and things to consider before making your choice.
Watch video
Compare the plans side-by-side
See how Pension Choice and Savings Choice compare.
Go to Plan Comparison
Model potential income
Use the plan modeler to compare estimated retirement income under Pension Choice and Savings Choice.
Visit the income modeler
Pension Choice
Pension Choice is a pension benefit under the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP), offering a predictable level of lifetime retirement income.
Your pension benefit is based on eligible annual pay up to the
PEPRA maximum
.
Along with the pension benefit, those eligible for the faculty benefit, and employees whose eligible annual pay is higher than the PEPRA maximum, build retirement savings through a supplemental 401(k)-style defined contribution account.
If you are eligible for the supplemental defined contribution benefit, you select the investments from available fund options.
Learn more about Pension Choice
​
Savings Choice
Savings Choice works much like a 401(k) plan. Your individual pretax contributions, and contributions from UC (based on your eligible pay), accumulate in a tax-deferred defined contribution retirement account.
Under Savings Choice, you choose your investments from a menu of available funds, and you assume the investment risk. UC provides educational tools and resources to help you plan.
Employees who choose Savings Choice will have a one-time opportunity, beginning on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election, to switch to Pension Choice prospectively.
Learn more about Savings Choice
​
Second Choice Window
If it's been five years since you made your initial election of Savings Choice and you’re eligible for the Second Choice window, visit the
Second Choice
page to learn more about this important opportunity. You can find resources there to help you decide if making the switch to Pension Choice is the right decision.
Ready to choose?
If you are ready to make your election of either Pension or Savings Choice, click the button below to log into NetBenefits
®
and follow the instructions.
You have 90 days to make your choice!
If you don't make a choice within 90 days of eligibility, you will be automatically enrolled in Pension Choice. Waiting means you will lose out on service credit and/or UC contributions.
Make your election
Additional resources
Determining eligibility
Webinars
Decision Guide (employees hired after July 1, 2016)
Decision Guide (CalPERS "Classic Members" or employees who worked for UC before July 1, 2016)
Complete Guide to Your UC Retirement Benefits
UC Retirement Choice Program: Steps for Electing Pension Choice or Savings Choice (English)
|
(Spanish)
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...