https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/decide/interactive-estimator-intro

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Interactive Estimator
Need help deciding how much Deferred Lifetime Income to purchase?
The Interactive Estimator tool can show you how much income your purchase amount can generate in retirement based on factors like your age and selected income option.
Ready to begin? Select the button below.
Launch the Interactive Estimator
PREVIOUS: Income Option Scenarios
NEXT: Steps to Prepare
Assumptions and important disclosures
Interactive Modeler assumptions
This estimate is for educational purposes only and may be higher or lower than the actual monthly payment you might receive if you choose to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income.
Data shown is calculated using recent quotes provided by multiple insurance companies and is based on the median quote. Purchases of a qualified longevity annuity contract are limited to the vested pretax balance of the plan you purchase from, or a lifetime limit of $210,000 per person, whichever is less. You are responsible for ensuring you do not exceed the IRS limits, so if you have already purchased a qualified deferred income annuity elsewhere, please factor that amount into this purchase. If you’re unsure, you may want to consult your financial advisor. You could be subject to penalties if you exceed the limits.
Important information
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC), which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states, and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Global Advisors). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Any discussion of taxes is for general informational purposes only and does not purport to be complete or cover every situation. All companies mentioned, their employees, financial professionals and other representatives are not authorized to give legal, tax or accounting advice. Applicable laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Any tax statements in this material are not intended to suggest the avoidance of U.S. federal, state or local tax penalties. For advice concerning your individual circumstances, consult a professional attorney, tax advisor or accountant.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...