https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/learn

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Deferred Lifetime Income Overview
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, known as a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC), that
eligible participants
age 62 to 69 can purchase with a portion of their UC RSP account balance. This can provide steady monthly income, similar to your paycheck, for life beginning at age 78 — a time when many retirees need financial security most.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
UC’s Chief Investment Officer explains how Deferred Lifetime Income can provide steady monthly income for life.
Watch video
HIGHLIGHTS
Monthly income, beginning at age 78, that lasts a lifetime.
You make a one-time purchase of Deferred Lifetime Income with a portion of your UC RSP account balance during an annual purchase window.
The insurance company holding the annuity contract will start paying a monthly benefit when you turn age 78, reducing the worry of running out of money in retirement.
Your Deferred Lifetime Income won’t be impacted by the ups and downs of the stock market, when stability is important.
An investment that lives on.
You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income for yourself, or for yourself and a spouse.
Plus, you can choose a beneficiary(ies) to receive any money you used to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium) that has not already been paid to you by the time of your death.
Income with an annual cost of living adjustment.
Your monthly benefit will increase 2% each year to help offset the impact of inflation.
Confident and simplified decision making.
The annuity insurers, monthly income levels and key features have been vetted.
You can plan for your long term financial health now, so you don't need to worry about making complex decisions much later in life.
PREVIOUS: Introduction
NEXT: Features
Important disclosures
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC) which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Investment Management). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...