https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/pension-choice

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Pension Choice
Pension Choice includes a pension benefit under the University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP), offering a predictable level of lifetime retirement income. Your pension benefit is based on eligible annual pay up to the PEPRA maximum.
Along with the pension benefit, all designated faculty, and employees whose eligible annual pay is higher than the PEPRA maximum, build retirement savings through a supplemental 401(k)-style defined contribution account. You can also save additional money through the UC Retirement Savings Program. Please see
Supplemental Retirement Benefits
for more details.
If you have 10 or more years of UC service, you and your eligible survivors may also quality for
retiree health benefits
. If you become permanently disabled, you may also be eligible for UCRP Disability Income which can include retiree health benefits and additional service credit towards retirement. Please see
A Complete Guide to Your UC Retirement Benefits
for more details.
Previous UC employee or eligible for UCRP/CalPERS reciprocity?
Your pension benefit is based on eligible annual pay up to the IRS maximum and you do not have a supplemental defined contribution account.
Learn more about your eligibility status.
Learn more about PEPRA and IRS maximums.
Overview of eligibility
To make a choice, you must meet the eligibility requirements.
You’re eligible for a choice of primary retirement benefits if you:
Are hired into an eligible faculty or career staff appointment on or after July 1, 2016;  or
Were hired in an ineligible position before July 1, 2016 and then became eligible for retirement benefits on or after July 1, 2016; or
Are rehired into an eligible faculty or career staff appointment on or after July 1, 2016, following a break in service. Generally, a break in service occurs if you left UC employment for at least one full calendar month.
Did you work for UC before July 1, 2016, or are you a CalPERS “Classic Member”?
Did you work for UC before July 1, 2016, or are you a CalPERS “Classic Member”? Different rules may apply to your retirement benefits.
Learn more.
If you’re represented by a union, your retirement benefits are governed by your union’s contract with UC. As a result, your benefits may be different than the benefits outlined here. Please refer to your
collective bargaining agreement
for details.
Election window
You have 90 days to make your primary retirement option.
Your selection window normally begins on the date you became eligible. For most new employees, this is your hire date. If you are uncertain about your eligibility date, please contact UCPath.
Contributions begin shortly after you've made your choice, prospectively based on payroll processing cycles. If you wait too long to make a choice within your 90-day selection window, you could miss out on valuable contributions from UC under Savings Choice or service credit/contributions under Pension Choice.
Your enrollment window closes once you submit a choice. Your submission is final and cannot be changed regardless of the amount of time left in your enrollment window. You will NOT be able to change or reselect once you submit your choice.
If you don’t choose a primary retirement option, you will automatically be enrolled in Pension Choice at the end of the 90-day period.
Contributions
Both you and UC make contributions.
You contribute
7% of your eligible pay, before taxes. Contributions on eligible pay above the PEPRA maximum up to the annual IRS pay maximum go into your supplemental defined contribution account.
UC contributes:
Pension:
A percentage of eligible pay, up to the PEPRA maximum.
DC Supplement for designated faculty:
5% on all eligible pay up to the IRS pay maximum.
DC Supplement for staff and other academic employees:
3% on eligible pay above the PEPRA maximum, up to the IRS pay maximum.
Note: Contributions are made only on pay you earn after you are enrolled, subject to payroll processing cycles.
Employer and employee contribution rates are set periodically by the UC Regents. Employee contributions and the provisions of Pension Choice are subject to collective bargaining for represented employees. Please refer to the appropriate
collective bargaining agreement
, as benefits and other provisions may vary.
Learn more about your eligibility status.
Learn more about PEPRA and IRS maximums.
Eligible pay
Your Pension Choice benefits are calculated based on "eligible pay," which does not include certain types of compensation.
Compensation that
does not
count as “eligible pay” includes:
Pay that exceeds the full-time rate or established base pay rates for regular, normal positions;
Overtime pay (unless for compensatory time off);
Pay that exceeds the base salary (X+X’) under the Health Sciences Compensation Plan.
For a list of types of compensation that are not considered "eligible pay" when calculating retirement benefits, see
A Complete Guide to Your UC Retirement Benefits
.
Your retirement income
Get to know when you vest and the income you may have in retirement.
When you vest in (become eligible for) benefits:
Your contributions to your pension and supplemental DC account (if you have one) are always yours. You vest in your pension benefits and in UC’s contributions to your supplemental DC account once you have earned five years of service credit with UC. You begin to earn service credit when you start making contributions.
Income:
When you retire, you receive lifetime monthly income based on your highest average 36 months of eligible pay (up to the PEPRA max), your UCRP service credit, and your age. You can choose a "contingent annuitant" to receive monthly lifetime income upon your death. Supplemental DC account distributions are governed by plan rules. The balance depends on contributions from you and UC and your investments’ performance and can be left to your beneficiary. Review
hypothetical scenarios
to see how estimated retirement income could vary based upon your Choice Election and other variables, such as age, income, and employment at UC.
Back: Retirement Stories
Next: Savings Choice
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...