https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/plan-comparison/income

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Income
Pension Choice
When you retire, you will receive lifetime monthly retirement income from UCRP based on your highest average 36 months of eligible pay (up to the PEPRA maximum, as appropriate), the amount of your service credit in UCRP, and your age at retirement. Learn more in the "How Retirement Income is Calculated" section of the
Complete Guide to Your UC Retirement Benefits
.
UCRP also includes benefits for your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement. At retirement, you can also choose someone like a spouse or child to receive lifetime monthly income upon your death.
If you are eligible for the supplemental DC account, you can draw retirement income from your account when you retire. Your account balance will depend on the amount contributed by you and UC and on the performance of your investments. Money you don't take out of your supplemental DC account can be left to your beneficiaries. Distributions are governed by plan rules.
Savings Choice
When you retire, you can draw retirement income from your account. Your account balance will depend on the amount contributed by you and UC and on the performance of your investments. Distributions are governed by plan rules.
Savings Choice does not include disability or survivor benefits, but money you don't take out of your account can be left to your beneficiaries. Employee-paid disability coverage and employee-paid supplemental life insurance coverage are available.
Review the
Choice Modeler
for estimates of your potential retirement income under both options.
Back: Investments
Next: Vesting
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...