https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/introduction

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Introduction to Deferred Lifetime Income
Planning for retirement requires careful consideration of various options. One such option gaining prominence is Deferred Lifetime Income. This financial solution provides a way to secure a steady stream of income during retirement, no matter how long you'll need it.
LEARN: About the opportunity
Understanding Deferred Lifetime Income is essential for securing a stable financial future during retirement. Empower yourself to make informed decisions, tailor solutions to your unique circumstances, consider tax implications, and prepare to make your purchase when the time comes.
Jump to Learn
DECIDE: Is this right for me?
Deciding whether Deferred Lifetime Income aligns with your financial goals involves thoughtful consideration. Take advantage of the tools and resources available to help you make an informed decision.
Jump to Decide
PREPARE: Before you make your purchase
Before you make your purchase, it’s important to know what you need and understand the steps involved.
Jump to Prepare
Upcoming purchase window
The 2025 window is currently closed. Use the resources available to learn, decide and prepare.
Learn More
NEXT: Learn
Important disclosures
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC) which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Investment Management). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...