https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/plan-comparison/additional-details

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Additional Details
Pension Choice
Portability
If you leave UC, your UCRP benefit is not portable. If you are vested and leave employment, leaving your UCRP accumulations on deposit will ensure that you remain eligible for lifetime monthly benefits when you reach retirement age. If you leave and are not vested, you are only eligible to receive a return of your own UCRP contributions (plus interest), which can be rolled over to an IRA or another retirement plan that will accept them.
The supplemental DC account is portable, so you can roll over the vested balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA.
Retiree Health and other insurance
Pension Choice may allow you to continue some health and other insurance plans into retirement, subject to the rules in effect at the time you retire.
If you leave UC and take a distribution of your vested accumulations, you will forfeit retiree health eligibility.
Election changes
The decision to participate in Pension Choice is irrevocable — you cannot change your participation to Savings Choice later.
Savings Choice
Portability
If you leave UC, your account is portable. That means you can roll your vested account balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA.
Retiree Health and other insurance
Savings Choice may allow you to continue some health and other insurance plans into retirement, subject to the rules in effect at the time you retire.
If you leave UC and take a distribution of your vested account, you will forfeit retiree health eligibility.
Election changes
Savings Choice participants have a window of opportunity to switch prospectively from Savings Choice to Pension Choice and become members of the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP). The Second Choice window for Savings Choice participants opens on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election. Learn more about
Second Choice
.
Back: Vesting
Next: Retirement Stories
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...