https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Retirement Benefits
Maximizing Your Benefits
Benefits Overview
Understanding Your Benefits
Maximizing Your Benefits
Newly Eligible: Making Your Choice
Enroll in and manage your UC Retirement benefits
Select an item below to help you make the most of your UC retirement benefits, based on what you want to achieve.
I want to optimize my savings
Take advantage of the savings opportunities in the 403(b), 457(b) and DC Plans.
The UC Retirement Savings Program (UC RSP) provides options to help you build additional retirement savings to augment your primary UC retirement benefits, Social Security, and other non-UC retirement income. Take advantage of the savings opportunities in the
403(b)
,
457(b)
and
DC Plan
.
TAKE ACTION
On NetBenefits
®
you can enroll in your UC RSP benefits, manage your contributions and investments, access planning tools and more.
Go to NetBenefits
Learn More
403(b) or 457(b): Which should you choose?
Learn the difference between the 403(b) and 457(b) Plans.
How much can you save this year?
You might be surprised by how much the IRS will let you contribute to the UC 403(b) and 457(b) this year. A contribution increase of just 1% could mean bigger payoffs in retirement.
Thinking of taking a loan from your 403(b)?
The decision to tap your account isn’t so simple when you consider some of the consequences. Employees often reduce or stop saving in their retirement savings plan after taking out a loan, which can significantly hinder their savings abilities.
Additional Resources
Enroll in UC's 403(b) or 457(b)
Take advantage of the DC Plan after-tax account
Introduction to catch-up contributions
How 403(b) loans work
Are you ready to roll? Rollovers made easy
What to do with your old 403(b)
How to update your beneficiary
How to keep your retirement savings working when you leave UC
I want to invest my savings
The UC Retirement Savings Program’s investment menu is designed to make it easier for you to build a diversified, lower-cost investment mix that matches your personal risk tolerance.
The UC Pathway Funds let you choose one fund based on the date you think you will retire, or the year you plan to start taking money from your account. The Pathway Fund gradually grows more conservative as it nears its target date and moves beyond.
Comfortable building a diversified portfolio on your own? The UCRSP Fund Menu lets you create a custom mix of fixed income funds and equity funds. If you want more flexibility and like researching, managing, and monitoring your investments, explore a self-directed brokerage account, too.
TAKE ACTION
Change investments on NetBenefits
®
Learn More
UC’s Chief Investment Officer talks about investing for retirement
Mr. Bachher illustrates the potential benefits of long-term investing. And whether your investing style is to do it yourself or to delegate, the video summarizes fund options to consider.
Investing tips and strategies webinars
Attend a webinar, such as the “Guide to Investing in the UC Retirement Savings Program."
Additional Resources
Introduction to the UC Fund menu
Introduction to the UC Pathway Funds
Introduction to Fidelity BrokerageLink
®
I want to plan my retirement income
Discover ways to help you keep the income from your retirement benefits flowing through all the years of your life.
UC Retirement Plan Income
UCRP members receive a monthly pension benefit that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income. When you retire, you will receive monthly retirement income for as long as you live.
Estimate your monthly pension benefit
Deferred Lifetime Income
Deferred Lifetime Income is a special type of annuity that you purchase now with a portion of your UC RSP account balance that provides steady monthly income for life beginning at age 78 — a time when many retirees need financial security most.
Learn more about Deferred Lifetime Income
Nearing or in retirement?
Access resources tailored to
employees nearing retirement
or
retirees who are already there
.
Additional Income Planning Resources
Put your 403(b), 457(b), and DC plan withdrawals on autopilot
Three keys to your retirement income plan
How to maximize your retirement income
Making sense of RMDs
Options for taking your first required minimum distribution (RMD)
Your UC retirement income just might surprise you
I want to prepare for future health care
You may be eligible to continue your UC-sponsored health and welfare coverage when you retire, or begin receiving disability income under UCRP.
Benefits you may continue in retirement include medical, dental, vision, legal, and AD&D. These benefits are separate from your primary retirement benefits, and are not a vested benefit. Learn more about your
Retiree Health & Welfare Benefits.
Want to estimate Retiree Health Premiums?
Check out the estimator tool on UC Davis’s Health Care Facilitator page.
Get your estimate
Attend a Webinar
Retiree Health Benefits webinar
Learn about the health plans available for UC retirees and their eligible family members.
Tailor your next steps to your life
Whether you’re new to UC, working and saving, nearing retirement, or already in retirement, there is a path for you.
Visit Peer Paths
Access more retirement and financial resources
From managing the financial basics and saving for retirement, to investing tips and strategies, the Resources Library has a breadth of informational articles for you to read.
Visit the Resources Library
Log into Fidelity NetBenefits
Interested in Second Choice?
Savings Choice participants have a window of opportunity to switch from Savings Choice to Pension Choice. The Second Choice window opens on the fifth anniversary of when their initial election was made.
Learn more
Latest Benefits News
UC Retirement Savings Program lowers administrative fee
Update on Secure Act 2.0 Retirement plan reforms
Updates to in-service withdrawals from UC’s 457(b) and DC Plan
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...