https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/savings-choice/second-choice

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Second Choice
Switching from Savings Choice to Pension Choice
Savings Choice participants have a window of opportunity to switch prospectively from Savings Choice to Pension Choice and become a member of the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP).
The Second Choice window for Savings Choice participants opens on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election.
A move from Savings Choice to Pension Choice is effective on July 1 (the beginning of the Plan Year) following your election, if your election is postmarked on or before May 31.
A switch from Savings Choice to Pension Choice is a change in your primary retirement benefits going forward; it is not retroactive. A switch to Pension Choice during your Second Choice window means:
Your Savings Choice account balance will remain yours. Contributions (from you and UC) to your Savings Choice account will stop on the date the change takes effect.
The service credit you earned as a participant in Savings Choice will count toward vesting in UCRP and toward your retiree health benefits. You will begin earning UCRP service credit toward the calculation of your pension benefit on the date your switch to Pension Choice takes effect.
You will remain in the pension plan for the remainder of your career, even if you separate and return.
Visit the Second Choice detail page
Back: Savings Choice Overview
Next: Choice Modeler
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...