https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/learn/features

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Deferred Lifetime Income Features
Income for life starting at age 78.
Deferred Lifetime Income is a feature available through the UC Pathway Funds.
It is designed to turn a portion of your 403(b), 457(b) or Defined Contribution (DC) plan balance into income that lasts through your lifetime, beginning at age 78.
You can use Deferred Lifetime Income to supplement other sources of retirement income — such as Social Security and the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) — and help cover your spending needs in your later retirement years.
Read on to learn more detailed information about purchasing Deferred Lifetime Income.
Eligibility
You are eligible if you are between the ages of 62 and 69 and have at least $10,000 in the UC RSP.
You are eligible to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income if:
You’re a UC Retirement Savings Program (UC RSP) participant between the ages of 62 and 69 as of the end of this calendar year (born between January 1, 1955
and December 31, 1963); and
You have a combined pretax account balance of at least $10,000 across the UC 457(b), 403(b) and DC Plans; and
You have a Social Security or tax ID number and a U.S. mailing address.
UC will notify you of the purchase window each year that you are eligible. Once you purchase Deferred Lifetime Income through the UC RSP, you will not be eligible to purchase more in future years, even if you did not previously take full advantage of the IRS limit.
Purchase window
The purchase window is September 2, 2025 through September 25, 2025.
You will receive notification from UC if you're eligible to participate in the purchase window.
The purchase window closes for you once you confirm your purchase. Your confirmation is final and cannot be changed regardless of the amount of time left in your purchase window. You will NOT be able to change or reselect during the purchase window once you submit your choice.
If you don’t purchase Deferred Lifetime Income, you will be notified of the window in the following year, for as long as you remain eligible.
Read more about what happens after you purchase in the "Return of premium, beneficiaries and cancellation" and “After you purchase” sections below.
Income options
You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income for yourself, or for yourself and a spouse.
Single Life Deferred Income Option
This option provides monthly lifetime payments to you only, beginning at age 78.
If you die before payments begin:
The amount you paid to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium) will be returned to your beneficiary(ies).
If you die after payments begin and have not recouped your purchase amount (the premium):
The difference between the amount you paid (the premium) and the amount you already received in monthly payments will be returned to your beneficiary(ies).
If you die after you have received the amount you paid to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium):
Your beneficiary(ies) will not receive any payment.
Joint & Survivor Deferred Income Options
These options provide monthly lifetime payments to you beginning at age 78. If you die before your spouse, your spouse will receive a percentage (50% or 75%, whichever you choose) of your monthly payment for the rest of their life.
If you die before payments begin and your spouse is still living:
Your spouse will receive monthly payments in the amount of 50% or 75% (depending on the option you select) of the monthly payments you would have received. The payments will start beginning when you would have turned 78 and continue for the remainder of your spouse’s life.
If both you and your spouse die before payments begin:
The amount you paid to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium) will be returned to your beneficiary(ies).
If you die after payments begin and your spouse is still living:
Your spouse will continue to receive 50% or 75% (depending on the option you select) of the monthly payments you would have received for the remainder of your spouse’s life.
If both you and your spouse die before you have received the amount you paid to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium):
The difference between the amount you paid (the premium) and the amount your spouse already received in monthly payments will be returned to your beneficiary(ies).
If you and your spouse both die after you have received the amount you paid to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income (the premium):
Your beneficiary(ies) will not receive any payment.
Purchase amount
You pay the insurer the premium amount from your UC RSP balance.
In 2025, the IRS limit for QLAC purchases is $210,000 per person. The minimum purchase amount is $10,000.
You are responsible for ensuring you do not exceed the IRS limits, so if you have already purchased a QLAC elsewhere, please factor that amount into your purchase. If you’re unsure, you may want to ask your financial advisor. You could be subject to penalties if you exceed the limits.
After the purchase window closes, your purchase amount will be deducted from your account in the UC RSP plan you chose and sent to the insurer.
Source plan and fund
You can purchase Deferred Lifetime Income from only one UC RSP plan (403(b), 457(b) or DC plan), purchased from a UC Pathway Fund.*
If needed, you can easily combine your savings into a single plan (403(b), 457(b) or DC plan) to meet your desired purchase amount. The pretax money you use to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income must be invested in one or more UC Pathway Funds.
If you are invested in one or more UC Pathway Funds, following is the hierarchy in which your purchase amount is taken from the eligible funds: UC Pathway Income Fund, UC Pathway 2020 Fund, UC Pathway 2025 Fund, UC Pathway 2030 Fund, UC Pathway 2035 Fund, UC Pathway 2040 Fund, UC Pathway 2045 Fund, UC Pathway 2050 Fund, UC Pathway 2055 Fund, UC Pathway 2060 Fund, and UC Pathway 2065 Fund.
If you don’t have enough in the UC Pathway Funds to complete your purchase, you can easily exchange money into the fund(s), as needed.
If you need to transfer money between plans or investment funds, be sure to factor in enough time for your transfer to take place before the purchase window closes. Call a UC-dedicated Fidelity planner at 1-800-558-9182 for assistance.
If you move money out of the required UC Pathway Funds and the balance in those funds drops below the minimum purchase amount before your QLAC purchase is processed, then the highest amount possible subject to IRS limits will be sent to the insurer. If less than $10,000 is available on the last day of the purchase window, your purchase election may be canceled.
The QLAC purchase is subject to market availability and cannot be guaranteed to be available for purchase in any given year. The QLAC is not provided by or guaranteed by SSGA, the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or Fidelity Investments, or any affiliate of SSGA, the University of California, or Fidelity Investments.
*UC Pathway Funds are designed for investors expecting to retire around the year indicated in each fund’s name. When choosing a fund, investors should consider whether they plan to retire much earlier or later than age 65, even if such investors retire on or near a fund’s approximate target date. There may be other factors to consider, and investors should choose the fund that best meets their individual circumstances and investment goals. The funds’ asset allocation strategy becomes more conservative as it nears the target date and beyond. The investment risks of each fund change over time as its asset allocation changes.
Return of premium, beneficiaries and cancellation
If you die before you have received the amount of your premium, your beneficiary(ies) will receive the remainder.
When you purchase, you can choose up to four beneficiaries. If you die before you have received at least the amount of your purchase (your premium), your beneficiary(ies) will receive the remainder.
If you purchase the single life option, your beneficiary(ies) can be your spouse or someone other than your spouse.
If you purchase one of the Joint & Survivor options, your beneficiary(ies) must be someone other than your spouse.
After the purchase, you can add more beneficiary(ies) or update your beneficiary(ies) by contacting the insurer.
You will have 90 days from the effective date of your annuity contract to cancel and receive a full refund of your premium — also known as a “free-look” period. The contract effective date is the date that the insurance company receives your premium, which occurs at the end of the election window in late September.
To initiate the cancellation of your Deferred Lifetime Income purchase, contact the insurance company after receiving your insurance certificate.
If you decide to cancel your purchase, your full premium will be returned and invested in the UC Pathway Income Fund at the closing price on the date Fidelity receives the funds from the insurer. While the full premium amount will be returned, depending on market conditions you may have more or less shares than you did prior to your purchase.
Cost-of-living adjustment (COLA)
Your monthly income will increase by 2% each year after your first full year of income to adjust for cost of living.
The cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is an important feature in retirement income solutions such as Deferred Lifetime Income. Here’s how:
The COLA ensures that your income keeps pace with inflation over time. As prices rise due to economic factors, your purchasing power remains relatively stable.
Each year, your monthly benefit receives a fixed percentage increase of 2% annually. By receiving an annual increase, your income adapts to rising living costs. This protection is especially valuable during long retirements.
COLAs offer many benefits, including:
Stable Purchasing Power:
COLAs ensure that your income maintains its purchasing power over time. As prices rise, your adjusted income allows you to cover essential expenses without compromising your lifestyle.
Predictable Retirement Planning:
Knowing that your income will increase annually provides predictability. You can plan your budget, account for rising costs, and make informed decisions about discretionary spending.
UCRP and Social Security Benefits:
The UC Retirement Plan and Social Security benefits also include COLAs. Understanding how these adjustments work ensures you maximize your overall retirement income.
After you purchase
After the purchase window closes, your purchase amount will be deducted from your account in the UC RSP plan you chose and sent to the insurer.
Once you purchase Deferred Lifetime Income, an account will be opened with the insurance company that will administer your benefit.
Your requested purchase amount will be deducted from your selected account after the window closes. The funds for your purchase will be deducted from your balance in the UC Pathway Funds, at the price in effect at that time.
The insurer will send you a welcome packet with details about your Deferred Lifetime Income benefit, including how to access your annuity and make updates to your contact information and beneficiaries.
The packet will contain important details, including your final Deferred Lifetime Income purchase amount, your future monthly income amount, the start date, and a certificate verifying your benefit.
You can access the insurer’s website either directly or through Fidelity at NetBenefits.com, where your monthly benefit will be displayed on your account page.
PREVIOUS: Overview
NEXT: FAQs
Important disclosures
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC) which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Investment Management). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...