https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/understanding-your-benefits

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
UC Retirement Benefits
Understanding Your Benefits
Benefits Overview
Understanding Your Benefits
Maximizing Your Benefits
Newly Eligible: Making Your Choice
Welcome to UC's Retirement Benefits
UC offers both primary and supplemental retirement benefits to help you plan for retirement. In addition to your primary retirement benefits through Pension or Savings Choice, you should consider saving additional money to prepare for retirement. The supplemental UC Retirement Savings Program — the 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans — provide three options to help you build additional retirement savings.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Get a UC Retirement System overview
Watch video
Primary Retirement Benefits
UC’s primary retirement benefits provide a strong foundation, with costs shared by you and UC.
If you are eligible for retirement benefits under more than one tier, you will be subject to the provisions of multiple tiers and your retirement benefits will be calculated taking the benefits accrued under the multiple tiers into account.
For more details, select the appropriate tier or program based on your hire date (for new hires), or rehire or eligibility date (for those with prior UC service).
Retirement Choice Program
Hire date after July 1, 2016
NEWLY ELIGIBLE: UNDERSTANDING YOUR CHOICE
When it comes to your primary (required) retirement benefits, you have two options: Pension Choice or Savings Choice. Both offer a valuable retirement income opportunity, but each works differently. Newly eligible employees must make their choice within 90 days of their hire date.
Learn more about Choice
PENSION CHOICE
Pension Choice is a pension benefit under the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP), offering a predictable level of lifetime retirement income.
Learn more about Pension Choice
SAVINGS CHOICE
Savings Choice works much like a 401(k) plan. Your individual pretax contributions, and contributions from UC (based on your eligible pay), accumulate in a tax-deferred retirement account. Under Savings Choice, you choose your investments from a menu of available funds, and you assume the investment risk.
Learn more about Savings Choice
SECOND CHOICE
Employees who choose Savings Choice will have a one-time opportunity to switch to Pension Choice prospectively, beginning on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election.
Learn more about Second Choice
UCRP 2013 Tier
Hire date between July 1, 2013 - June 30, 2016
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
As a UCRP 2013 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive UCRP benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 55 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit.
Click to learn more
UCRP 1976 Tier
Hire date before July 1, 2013
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
As a UCRP 1976 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 50 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit or a lump sum cashout.
Click to learn more
UCRP Modified 2013 Tier
New hires in CNA, AFSCME and UPTE
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement.
Modified 2013 Tier benefits include special provisions for eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 2013 covered by CNA, AFSCME and UPTE bargaining contracts.
As a UCRP Modified 2013 Tier member, you can elect to retire and receive benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 50 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit or a lump sum cashout.
Click to learn more
UCRP Safety Member
Police and Firefighters
The UC Retirement Plan (UCRP) is a traditional pension plan that offers a predictable level of lifetime retirement income and includes benefits for you and your eligible survivors, as well as disability income if you become totally and permanently disabled before retirement. Safety membership in UCRP is for employees appointed to eligible police or firefighting positions.
As a UCRP Safety member, you can elect to retire and receive benefits at any time after you become eligible — that is, when you reach age 50 and leave UC employment with at least five years of service credit. When you retire, you may choose a lifetime monthly benefit or a lump sum cashout.
Click to learn more
Supplemental Retirement Benefits
In addition to your primary retirement benefits, you should consider saving additional money to prepare for retirement. The supplemental UC Retirement Savings Program — the 403(b), 457(b), and DC Plans — provide three options to help you build additional retirement savings to augment your primary UC retirement benefits, Social Security, and other non-UC retirement income. You can participate in all of the plans as long as you do not exceed
IRS limits
.
Select each plan below to learn more about the three options' similarities and differences. Or, go directly to NetBenefits
®
to enroll in the plans, manage your account and investments, and more.
Enroll or manage accounts on NetBenefits
403(b) Plan
Pretax and Roth Savings
The 403(b) Plan features most closely resemble a 401(k) plan, including a loan option.
The 403(b) Plan is a retirement plan that lets you add to your retirement account with pretax and
Roth contributions
.
With pretax contributions, taxes on your contributions and any investment earnings are deferred until you withdraw the money.
With Roth contributions, you pay taxes now on your contributions, and have the opportunity for tax-free income in retirement.*
Your account is portable, so you can normally rollover part or all of your account balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA without penalty whenever you are no longer working at UC.
*In general, Roth distributions are not subject to federal income tax when withdrawn after the aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: age 59½; disability; or death.
Click to learn more
457(b) Plan
Pretax and Roth Savings
The governmental 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan is an additional way for you to save for retirement. It is like the 403(b) Plan but has different distribution options.
The 457(b) Plan is a retirement plan that lets you add to your retirement account with pretax and
Roth contributions
.
With pretax contributions, taxes on your contributions and any investment earnings are deferred until you withdraw the money.
With Roth contributions, you pay taxes now on your contributions, and have the opportunity for tax-free income in retirement.*
Your account is portable, so you can normally rollover part or all of your account balance into another employer’s retirement plan or an IRA whenever you are no longer working at UC.
*In general, Roth distributions are not subject to federal income tax when withdrawn after the aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: age 59½; disability; or death.
Click to learn more
Defined Contribution Plan
After-Tax Savings
The DC Plan offers an after-tax account that lets you add to your retirement savings with after-tax contributions.
Taxes on any investment earnings related to your after-tax contributions are deferred until you withdraw the money.
You can access your contributions at any time without penalty (earnings are subject to taxes and possible early withdrawal penalties if not rolled over).
Click to learn more
Other Benefits
When you retire, or begin receiving disability income under UCRP, you may be eligible to continue your UC-sponsored health and welfare coverage.
Retiree Health and Welfare Benefits
Medical, Dental, Vision, Legal, and AD&D
Benefits you may continue include: Medical, Dental, Vision, Legal, and AD&D. These benefits are separate from your primary retirement benefits and are not a vested benefit.
Click to learn more
Will your retirement income meet your goals?
Estimate how much you may receive in retirement from your UC benefits, and compare it to how much you may need in retirement income.
View your Retirement Review
Newly Benefits Eligible?
Eligible faculty and staff have 90 days to make a choice between Pension Choice and Savings Choice. The sooner you enroll, the sooner you start receiving UC contributions and/or service credit.
Learn more
Ready to Choose?
This is an important decision, so make sure you take advantage of the resources to help you make the choice that’s right for you.
Make your election
Primary Retirement Benefits
Visit UCRAYS to manage your account
Visit RASC for member support
Estimate your income
See benefits for part-time, seasonal, temporary and student employees (Safe Harbor)
415(m) Restoration Plan
Supplemental Retirement Benefits
Visit NetBenefits
®
to manage your accounts
How much money can you save this year?
403(b) or 457(b): Which should you choose?
Explore investment options
Contact Fidelity for participant support
Access planning tools
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...