https://myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/plan-comparison/overview

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Plan Comparison Overview
UC offers you a choice of two different primary retirement benefit options: Pension Choice and Savings Choice. Both provide a valuable retirement benefit that you can use — along with the Social Security benefits and any other savings you may have — to help build retirement income. Both you and UC contribute to the cost of the option you select. You choose the option that fits you best.
Below is a quick comparison of a few similarities.
Whichever option you choose,
once you enroll:
Required pretax contributions of 7% of your eligible pay (up to the IRS maximum) will be deducted from your paycheck; you vest in your contributions immediately, meaning that they belong to you.
UC will contribute towards your retirement benefits.
You’ll earn service credit toward UC’s retiree health benefits.
Note:
Each option is a separate, qualified retirement plan. Contributions and service credit under each of the options are generally not combined for purposes of determining eligibility for, or calculating benefits under, either of the options.
Here’s a quick comparison of a few very important differences:
Pension Choice
Pension plan.
Pays you a predictable monthly benefit after you retire. Depending on your salary and/or job type, this option may also include a supplemental defined contribution account.
Based on a formula.
The pension benefit is based on a formula that includes eligible annual pay, service with UC and age at retirement.
Five-year vesting.
Your future pension benefit and UC's contributions to the supplemental savings account, if any, vest after five years of UCRP service credit. If you leave UC employment prior to vesting, you are eligible to leave your pension contributions in the UCRP where they accrue interest or take a refund of your contributions.
Not fully portable.
You cannot roll over your pension benefit to another employer’s retirement plan or IRA if you leave UC. If you are vested when you leave UC, your pension benefit is normally paid out as a lifetime monthly benefit when you retire. You generally can roll over your vested supplemental savings account balance, if any, if you leave UC.
Participation is irrevocable.
You cannot change your participation to Savings Choice later.
Savings Choice
Retirement savings plan.
A tax-deferred defined contribution retirement savings plan account, similar to a 401(k). You invest the money in your account and draw income from your account balance when you retire.
Based on contributions and investment performance.
Your account's value depends on contributions plus investment performance.
One-year vesting.
UC’s contributions to your account vest after one year of employment.
Portable.
You generally can roll over your vested account balance, if any, to another employer’s retirement plan or IRA if you leave UC.
Opportunity to switch.
Savings Choice participants have a window of opportunity to switch prospectively from Savings Choice to Pension Choice and become members of the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP). The Second Choice window for Savings Choice participants opens on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election.
Learn more about eligible earnings maximums
Back: Eligibility
Next: Investments
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...