https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/decide

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Participation Considerations
There are several factors to consider when deciding whether Deferred Lifetime Income should be part of your retirement plan. Read on to answer questions like "Is this right for me?" or "What factors should I keep in mind that may impact my decision?"
Consider Deferred Lifetime Income if you:
Want a monthly payment, similar to a paycheck, to supplement other sources of expected income, like a small (or no) UCRP benefit and Social Security.
Are interested in sheltering a portion of your retirement savings and future income from the ups and downs of the financial market.
Prefer to plan for long-term financial health now, so you don’t need to make complex financial decisions later in life.
Have a spouse who may need an additional source of income after your death.
Would like to reduce the amount of required minimum distributions (RMDs) from your retirement savings account, potentially reducing your tax burden.
Deferred Lifetime Income may
not
be right if you:
Have a lifetime monthly income stream through the UCRP that will cover your expenses in retirement.
Are comfortable with market volatility and potential impact on savings balances.
Are confident in your ability to manage your retirement saving investments and withdrawals later in life.
Have a spouse with enough guaranteed income in retirement from other sources.
Note that Deferred Lifetime Income is different than UCRP and is not guaranteed by UC or the UC RSP plans. Payments will come directly from an insurance company, rather than from UC or the UC RSP. Consider your potential UCRP benefits and other income sources before deciding if Deferred Lifetime Income is right for you.
PREVIOUS: Learn
NEXT: Income Option Scenarios
Important disclosures
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC) which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Investment Management). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...