https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/using-your-benefits/qlac/prepare

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Deferred Lifetime Income
Money when you need it most
Introduction
Learn
Decide
Prepare
Purchase
Speak with a consultant
Introduction
Learn
Overview
Features
FAQs
Decide
Participation Considerations
Income Option Scenarios
Interactive Estimator
Prepare
Steps to Prepare
Purchase
Resources
Decision Guide
Interactive Estimator
FAQs
Webcast Presentation
Webcast Recording
Retirement Income Strategies
NetBenefits.com
Steps to Prepare
If you’ve decided to purchase Deferred Lifetime Income, there are a few steps you need to take before completing the process. Some of these can be completed even before the window is open — like getting your accounts in order.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Watch a step-by-step overview of the Deferred Lifetime Income purchase process to see what to expect.
Watch video
How to purchase
When the window is open, typically in September, you’ll see a “Purchase” tab at the top of the page. Navigate there to log in using your NetBenefits
®
credentials.
Provide some basic information.
Confirm your personal details and your marital status.
Decide your purchase details.
You’ll get a quote based on your information and factors provided by the insurer. You can enter and adjust your purchase amount as needed until you are happy with it. You’ll also indicate if you want to purchase income for yourself (the single life option) or with your spouse (a joint & survivor option).
Choose your withdrawal account and get your account ready.
Choose a UC RSP plan for the purchase (e.g., 403(b), 457(b) or DC plan). The money for your purchase must be invested in one or more UC Pathway Funds. If needed, you’ll get step-by-step instructions about how you can move between plans and/or investment funds to meet balance requirements. You can even roll over money from eligible outside retirement accounts.
Moving funds between plans and investment funds can take a few days, so please ensure you allot sufficient time to complete these steps prior to the window closing.
Tip!
You can complete this step even before the purchase window opens.
Enter additional information.
Add up to four beneficiaries and information for your spouse, if applicable.
Review and submit your election.
As a last step, you’ll review your election details, read the insurer’s disclosures, enter your initials, and confirm your purchase.
Get help with your decision
Discuss your financial situation with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant or your financial advisor.
This is especially important if you have balances in former employers’ retirement plan(s), or if you have an IRA.
A Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant can also walk you through the purchase process and help transfer funds if necessary. To make an appointment with a Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant, call
1-800-558-9182
, Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT, or
schedule an appointment online
.
Upcoming purchase window
The 2025 window has closed. Use the resources available to learn, decide and prepare.
Introduction
PREVIOUS: Decide
Important disclosures
Deferred Lifetime Income is a type of deferred income annuity, called a "qualified longevity annuity contract" (QLAC) which is an insurance product that pays lifetime income starting on a future date, in return for a lump-sum investment of pretax assets. The income start date for Deferred Lifetime Income is 78, which is later than the age at which individuals are required to begin taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement plans and traditional IRAs. A QLAC is not subject to required minimum distributions. Participants can contact the insurer directly to start annuity payments earlier; additional restrictions may apply.
Annuity payments are subject to product terms, exclusions, and limitations, and the issuing insurance company's financial strength and claims-paying ability.
Products may not be available in all states and product features may vary by state. Please refer to your certificate.
The UC Pathway Funds, as well as QLACs, are not insured by the FDIC or by another governmental agency; they are not obligations of the FDIC or deposits or obligations guaranteed by the University of California, the UC Retirement Savings Program plans, or the professional investment manager of the UC Pathway Funds (currently State Street Investment Management). QLAC purchases are subject to regulatory limitations. QLACs permanently convert a single premium into an income stream. The QLAC has no accumulation value and cannot be surrendered. Please consult your tax advisor.
Investing involves risk, including the risk of loss.
© 2025 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Need help?
Speak with a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant who can help you understand how Deferred Lifetime Income could fit in your retirement plan and walk you through the purchase process and transferring any funds. Available Monday–Friday, 5:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. PT.
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Call 1-800-558-9182 or schedule a meeting
Loading...