https://www.myucretirement.com/uc-retirement-benefits/making-your-choice/savings-choice/overview

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Making Your Retirement Choice
Eligibility
Plan Comparison
Overview
Investments
Income
Vesting
Additional Details
Retirement Stories
Pension Choice
Savings Choice
Overview
Second Choice
Choice Modeler
Attend a Webinar
Ready to choose?
Elect Pension Choice or Savings Choice within 90 days of eligibility.
Make your election
Savings Choice
Savings Choice works much like a 401(k) defined contribution plan. Your individual pretax contributions, contributions from UC (based on your eligible pay) and any investment earnings accumulate in a tax-deferred DC retirement account. You choose your investments from a menu of available funds, and you assume the investment risk. The value of your account can go up and down. UC provides tools, resources, and one-on-one guidance to help you understand how to plan and invest for retirement. You can also save additional money through the UC Retirement Savings Program. Please see
Supplemental Retirement Benefits
for details.
Employees who choose Savings Choice will have a one-time opportunity, beginning on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which they made their initial election, to switch to Pension Choice prospectively. If you have 10 or more years of service, you may also quality for
retiree health benefits
when you retire.
Guidance provided is educational.
Overview of eligibility
To make a choice, you must meet the eligibility requirements.
You’re eligible for a choice of primary retirement benefits if you:
Are hired into an eligible faculty or career staff appointment on or after July 1, 2016;  or
Were hired in an ineligible position before July 1, 2016 and then became eligible for retirement benefits on or after July 1, 2016; or
Are rehired into an eligible faculty or career staff appointment on or after July 1, 2016, following a break in service. Generally, a break in service occurs if you left UC employment for at least one full calendar month.
Did you work for UC before July 1, 2016, or are you a CalPERS “Classic Member”?
Different rules may apply to your retirement benefits.
Learn more.
If you’re represented by a union, your retirement benefits are governed by your union’s contract with UC. As a result, your benefits may be different than the benefits outlined here. Please refer to your
collective bargaining agreement
for details.
Election window
You have 90 days to make your primary retirement option.
Your selection window normally begins on the date you became eligible. For most new employees, this is your hire date. If you are uncertain about your eligibility date, please contact your benefits office.
Contributions begin shortly after you've made your choice, prospectively based on payroll processing cycles. If you wait too long to make a choice within your 90-day selection window, you could miss out on valuable contributions from UC under Savings Choice or service credit/contributions under Pension Choice.
Your enrollment window closes once you submit a choice. Your submission is final and cannot be changed regardless of the amount of time left in your enrollment window. You will NOT be able to change or reselect once you submit your choice during the window.
If you choose Savings Choice, you will have a one-time opportunity, beginning on the fifth anniversary of the calendar year in which you made your initial election, to switch to Pension Choice prospectively.
If you don’t choose a primary retirement option, you will automatically be enrolled in Pension Choice at the end of the 90-day period.
Contributions
Both you and UC make contributions.
You contribute 7% of your eligible pay before taxes, up to the annual IRS pay maximum.
UC contributes 8% of eligible pay, up to the annual IRS pay maximum.
For the 2024 Plan Year (from July 1, 2024, to June 30, 2025), the annual IRS pay maximum is $345,000. For the 2025 Plan Year (from July 1, 2025, to June 30, 2026), the maximum is $350,000.
Employer and employee contribution rates are set periodically by the UC Regents. Employee contributions and the provisions of Savings Choice are subject to collective bargaining for represented employees. Please refer to the appropriate
collective bargaining agreement
, as benefits and other provisions may vary.
Eligible pay
Your Savings Choice benefits are calculated based on "eligible pay," which does not include certain types of compensation.
Compensation that
does not
count as “eligible pay” includes:
Pay that exceeds the full-time rate or established base pay rates for regular, normal positions;
Overtime pay (unless for compensatory time off);
Pay that exceeds the base salary (X+X’) under the Health Sciences Compensation Plan.
For a list of types of compensation that are not considered "eligible pay" when calculating retirement benefits, see
A Complete Guide to Your UC Retirement Benefits
.
Your retirement income
Get to know when you vest and the income you may have in retirement.
When you vest in (become eligible for) benefits
: Your contributions to your account are always yours. UC’s contributions will vest after one year of employment.
Income
: You draw money from your account in retirement; distributions are governed by plan rules. The balance will depend on the amount contributed by you and UC and your investments’ performance and can be left to your designated beneficiary. Review
hypothetical scenarios
to see how estimated retirement income could vary based upon your Choice Election and other variables, such as age, income, and employment at UC.
Back: Pension Choice
Next: Second Choice
Need help making a decision?
Get free 1:1 help from a UC-dedicated Fidelity Workplace Financial Consultant by phone or in person. Call
1-800-558-9182
or click below to schedule a meeting.
Schedule meeting
Schedule meeting
Loading...