https://myucretirement.com/webinars/overview?category=1113

My UC Retirement
Skip to main content
Webinars
Webinars Overview
Webinars Overview
Live Webinars Calendar
These webinars help you learn about your UC retirement benefits and manage your financial life — from everyday money matters to growing and protecting the life you've built.
Watch a short video
to learn more about the UC financial education webinars and how they can help you.
Click titles for more information and viewing instructions. Use the menu below to filter by category.
Investing tips and strategies
Ways to Save with Roth
This webinar is designed to help you understand the Roth option in the UC Retirement Savings Plan.
What will you learn in this seminar
How Roth gives you the opportunity for tax-free income in retirement, who might benefit from Roth contributions, and how to start making Roth contributions. Note: A distribution from a Roth 401(k), Roth 403 (b) and Roth 457 (b) is federally tax free and penalty free, provided the five-year aging requirement has been satisfied and one of the following conditions is met: age 59, disability, or death.
Who should attend?
Those who want to learn more about Roth contributions in the UC Retirement Savings Plan.
Upcoming Live Sessions
(click to register)
October 29 - 9:00 AM
November 21 - 9:00 AM
December 05 - 9:00 AM
Investing for Beginners
This class presents basic investing terms and concepts, the building blocks of investing and how to determine what type of investor to be.
What will you learn in this seminar
Understand basic investing terms and concepts, learn about the building blocks of investing, and determine what type of investor to be.
Who should attend?
Those who want to learn the basics of investing.
Upcoming Live Sessions
(click to register)
October 08 - 11:00 AM
October 20 - 12:00 PM
November 06 - 9:00 AM
November 18 - 12:00 PM
December 08 - 12:00 PM
December 18 - 9:00 AM
Take the First Step to Investing (Spanish)
This class will review investing basics, asset allocation and diversification, and identifying your ideal investment approach.
What will you learn in this seminar
Review the basics of investing, understand asset allocation and diversification, and identify your ideal investment approach.
Who should attend?
Those who are ready to take the first step to investing.
Upcoming Live Sessions
(click to register)
December 09 - 12:00 PM
Investing involves risk, including risk of loss.
Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, Member NYSE,
SIPC
, 900 Salem Street, Smithfield, RI 02917
© 2019-2024 FMR LLC. All rights reserved.
1166309.4.0
Request a class
Is there a topic not offered that you’d be interested in? Help us improve our selection of webinars.
Request a class
Fidelity Webcast Hub
Not sure what you’re looking for? Browse all Fidelity Webcasts covering a wide range of financial planning topics.
Visit Webcast Hub
Need a helping hand?
Find support in managing your retirement benefits.
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Visit the Contacts page for more information
Loading...